src/content/en/docs/02.how-to/01.social-previews-checklist.md, before:

---
title: "Social Previews Checklist"
slug: "social-previews-checklist"
---

Set Open Graph and Twitter meta with global defaults and per-page overrides. Keep social images absolute (use `site.url` or your CDN) to avoid `localhost` in previews. This is a quick checklist; for the full walkthrough, see the tutorial “Custom Social Previews.”

## Prerequisites
- Baseline installed and loaded; `site.url` set via `.env`/environment for builds.
- `package.json` with `"type": "module"` and scripts (`dev`, `build`); `@11ty/eleventy-img` already installed if you generate images separately.

## Steps

<div class="c-docs-steps">

1. Set global defaults in `src/_data/head.js` (OG/Twitter title, description, image).
2. Override per page in front matter under `head.openGraph` / `head.twitter`.
3. Use absolute URLs for images (combine `site.url` + path).
4. Verify: dev/build, view source for `og:*` and `twitter:*`, confirm canonical origin.

</div>

## Notes
- Keep titles/descriptions concise; supply card-appropriate image dimensions (e.g., ~1200×630).
- Per-page `head` overrides win over `_data/head.js`; use absolute URLs for images.

Commit message:

Add `description` field for all doc pages

src/content/en/docs/02.how-to/01.social-previews-checklist.md, after:

---
title: "Social Previews Checklist"
slug: "social-previews-checklist"
description: "Quick checklist to set global and per-page Open Graph and Twitter meta in Baseline, using absolute social images and verifying tags after build."
---

Set Open Graph and Twitter meta with global defaults and per-page overrides. Keep social images absolute (use `site.url` or your CDN) to avoid `localhost` in previews. This is a quick checklist; for the full walkthrough, see the tutorial “Custom Social Previews.”

## Prerequisites
- Baseline installed and loaded; `site.url` set via `.env`/environment for builds.
- `package.json` with `"type": "module"` and scripts (`dev`, `build`); `@11ty/eleventy-img` already installed if you generate images separately.

## Steps

<div class="c-docs-steps">

1. Set global defaults in `src/_data/head.js` (OG/Twitter title, description, image).
2. Override per page in front matter under `head.openGraph` / `head.twitter`.
3. Use absolute URLs for images (combine `site.url` + path).
4. Verify: dev/build, view source for `og:*` and `twitter:*`, confirm canonical origin.

</div>

## Notes
- Keep titles/descriptions concise; supply card-appropriate image dimensions (e.g., ~1200×630).
- Per-page `head` overrides win over `_data/head.js`; use absolute URLs for images.
