src/content/en/docs/02.how-to/03.custom-esbuild-targets.md, before:

---
title: "Custom Esbuild Targets"
slug: "custom-esbuild-targets"
---

Add multiple JS entrypoints, decide when to inline vs bundle, and override esbuild targets/minify for Baseline’s JS pipeline.

## Prerequisites
- Baseline installed and loaded; assets pipeline enabled.
- Default JS entry at `src/assets/js/index.js` exists.
- `package.json` with `"type": "module"` and scripts (`dev`, `build`).

## Steps

<div class="c-docs-steps">

1. Add additional entrypoints.

   Create more `index.js` files under `src/assets/js/`. Each folder becomes a bundle in `dist/assets/js/`:

   ```bash
   mkdir -p src/assets/js/home src/assets/js/about
   echo "console.log('home bundle');" > src/assets/js/home/index.js
   echo "console.log('about bundle');" > src/assets/js/about/index.js
   ```

   Reference them in templates:

   {% raw %}
   ```njk
   <script src="/assets/js/home/index.js" defer></script>
   <script src="/assets/js/about/index.js" defer></script>
   ```
   {% endraw %}

2. Inline a small script (keep requests low).

   For tiny helpers, inline the bundled output with the built-in filter:

   ```njk
   {%  raw %}{{ "src/assets/js/home/index.js" | inlineESbuild | safe }}{% endraw %}
   ```

   This bundles + minifies that file with esbuild target `es2020` and injects a `<script>…</script>` tag.

3. Set default target/minify for all bundles.

   Pass options to Baseline when you register it:

   ```js
   import baseline from "./_baseline/eleventy.config.js";

   eleventyConfig.addPlugin(baseline({
     assetsESBuild: {
       minify: process.env.ELEVENTY_ENV === "production",
       target: "es2017",
     },
   }));
   ```

4. Override target/minify for a specific inline script.

   For a one-off override, pass options directly to the built-in inline filter (options merge with your defaults from `assetsESBuild`):

   {% raw %}
   ```njk
   {{ "src/assets/js/about/index.js" | inlineESbuild({ minify: false, target: "es2017" }) | safe }}
   ```
   {% endraw %}

5. Verify.
   - Dev: `npx rimraf dist && npm run dev`
   - Build: `npx rimraf dist && npm run build`
   - Check `dist/assets/js/**/index.js` for bundled output and size.
   - For inlined scripts, view page source and confirm the bundled code is present.

</div>

## Notes
- Baseline’s default JS bundling: any `index.js` under `src/assets/js/**/` is bundled, minified, and targeted to `es2020`.
- Use inline only for small helpers; keep larger bundles as external files for caching.
- When you override globally, you own updates to targets/minification; revisit if you change browser support.
- If you often need different inline settings, write your own filter that calls `inlineESbuild` with preset options, then use that filter instead of repeating the options object.

Commit message:

Add `description` field for all doc pages

src/content/en/docs/02.how-to/03.custom-esbuild-targets.md, after:

---
title: "Custom Esbuild Targets"
slug: "custom-esbuild-targets"
description: "Add multiple JS entrypoints, choose when to inline, and set esbuild target/minify defaults or per-inline overrides in Baseline."
---

Add multiple JS entrypoints, decide when to inline vs bundle, and override esbuild targets/minify for Baseline’s JS pipeline.

## Prerequisites
- Baseline installed and loaded; assets pipeline enabled.
- Default JS entry at `src/assets/js/index.js` exists.
- `package.json` with `"type": "module"` and scripts (`dev`, `build`).

## Steps

<div class="c-docs-steps">

1. Add additional entrypoints.

   Create more `index.js` files under `src/assets/js/`. Each folder becomes a bundle in `dist/assets/js/`:

   ```bash
   mkdir -p src/assets/js/home src/assets/js/about
   echo "console.log('home bundle');" > src/assets/js/home/index.js
   echo "console.log('about bundle');" > src/assets/js/about/index.js
   ```

   Reference them in templates:

   {% raw %}
   ```njk
   <script src="/assets/js/home/index.js" defer></script>
   <script src="/assets/js/about/index.js" defer></script>
   ```
   {% endraw %}

2. Inline a small script (keep requests low).

   For tiny helpers, inline the bundled output with the built-in filter:

   ```njk
   {%  raw %}{{ "src/assets/js/home/index.js" | inlineESbuild | safe }}{% endraw %}
   ```

   This bundles + minifies that file with esbuild target `es2020` and injects a `<script>…</script>` tag.

3. Set default target/minify for all bundles.

   Pass options to Baseline when you register it:

   ```js
   import baseline from "./_baseline/eleventy.config.js";

   eleventyConfig.addPlugin(baseline({
     assetsESBuild: {
       minify: process.env.ELEVENTY_ENV === "production",
       target: "es2017",
     },
   }));
   ```

4. Override target/minify for a specific inline script.

   For a one-off override, pass options directly to the built-in inline filter (options merge with your defaults from `assetsESBuild`):

   {% raw %}
   ```njk
   {{ "src/assets/js/about/index.js" | inlineESbuild({ minify: false, target: "es2017" }) | safe }}
   ```
   {% endraw %}

5. Verify.
   - Dev: `npx rimraf dist && npm run dev`
   - Build: `npx rimraf dist && npm run build`
   - Check `dist/assets/js/**/index.js` for bundled output and size.
   - For inlined scripts, view page source and confirm the bundled code is present.

</div>

## Notes
- Baseline’s default JS bundling: any `index.js` under `src/assets/js/**/` is bundled, minified, and targeted to `es2020`.
- Use inline only for small helpers; keep larger bundles as external files for caching.
- When you override globally, you own updates to targets/minification; revisit if you change browser support.
- If you often need different inline settings, write your own filter that calls `inlineESbuild` with preset options, then use that filter instead of repeating the options object.
