src/content/en/docs/02.how-to/05.image-transform.md, before:

---
title: "Image Transform"
slug: "image-transform"
---

Use Eleventy’s HTML Transform (`eleventyImageTransformPlugin`) to rewrite your `<img>` (and `<picture>`) into responsive markup with generated assets and caching.

## Prerequisites
- Eleventy 3.x and `@11ty/eleventy-img` installed.
- `site.url` set to your origin (no subpath).
- Images referenced in your content or templates (local or remote).

## Steps

<div class="c-docs-steps">

1. Install the Eleventy Image plugin.

   ```bash
   npm install @11ty/eleventy-img
   ```

2. Enable the HTML transform in `eleventy.config.js`.

   ```js
   import path from "node:path";
   import { eleventyImageTransformPlugin } from "@11ty/eleventy-img";
   import baseline, { config as baselineConfig } from "./_baseline/eleventy.config.js";

   export default function (eleventyConfig) {
     eleventyConfig.addPlugin(baseline());
     eleventyConfig.addPlugin(eleventyImageTransformPlugin, {
       urlPath: "/media/",
       outputDir: "./dist/media/",
       formats: ["avif", "webp", "jpeg"],
       widths: [320, 640, 960, 1280],
       filenameFormat(id, src, width, format) {
         const extension = path.extname(src);
         const name = path.basename(src, extension);
         return `${name}-${width}w.${format}`;
       },
     });
   }

   export const config = baselineConfig;
   ```

3. Write plain `<img>` in content.

   The transform rewrites `<img>` to `<picture>` (with sources) at build time. Keep `alt` on every image. Example in Markdown:

   ```md
   <img src="/images/mountains.jpg" alt="Mountains at sunrise">
   ```

4. Handle remote images and caching.

   Remote `src` values are fetched and cached on disk. Ensure the build environment can reach them. Cache defaults come from the plugin; adjust if you need a different cache dir.

5. Build and verify.
   - Dev: `npx rimraf dist && npm run dev`
   - Build: `npx rimraf dist && npm run build`
   - Inspect rendered HTML: you should see `<picture>` with multiple `<source>` tags and `<img>` including width/height.
   - Check generated files under `dist/media/`.

</div>

## Notes
- Keep `site.url` origin-only; if you deploy under a subpath, set `pathPrefix` separately.
- `formats` order matters; the first format is preferred by the browser.
- Use `sizes` (default from plugin) if you need custom responsive behavior; set `sizes` in the plugin options.
- For advanced options (cache, returnType/htmlOptions, remote fetch), see the Eleventy Image docs: https://www.11ty.dev/docs/plugins/image/

Commit message:

Add `description` field for all doc pages

src/content/en/docs/02.how-to/05.image-transform.md, after:

---
title: "Image Transform"
slug: "image-transform"
description: "Use Eleventy Image transform to rewrite img tags into responsive picture markup with multiple formats and sizes, configured output paths, and caching."
---

Use Eleventy’s HTML Transform (`eleventyImageTransformPlugin`) to rewrite your `<img>` (and `<picture>`) into responsive markup with generated assets and caching.

## Prerequisites
- Eleventy 3.x and `@11ty/eleventy-img` installed.
- `site.url` set to your origin (no subpath).
- Images referenced in your content or templates (local or remote).

## Steps

<div class="c-docs-steps">

1. Install the Eleventy Image plugin.

   ```bash
   npm install @11ty/eleventy-img
   ```

2. Enable the HTML transform in `eleventy.config.js`.

   ```js
   import path from "node:path";
   import { eleventyImageTransformPlugin } from "@11ty/eleventy-img";
   import baseline, { config as baselineConfig } from "./_baseline/eleventy.config.js";

   export default function (eleventyConfig) {
     eleventyConfig.addPlugin(baseline());
     eleventyConfig.addPlugin(eleventyImageTransformPlugin, {
       urlPath: "/media/",
       outputDir: "./dist/media/",
       formats: ["avif", "webp", "jpeg"],
       widths: [320, 640, 960, 1280],
       filenameFormat(id, src, width, format) {
         const extension = path.extname(src);
         const name = path.basename(src, extension);
         return `${name}-${width}w.${format}`;
       },
     });
   }

   export const config = baselineConfig;
   ```

3. Write plain `<img>` in content.

   The transform rewrites `<img>` to `<picture>` (with sources) at build time. Keep `alt` on every image. Example in Markdown:

   ```md
   <img src="/images/mountains.jpg" alt="Mountains at sunrise">
   ```

4. Handle remote images and caching.

   Remote `src` values are fetched and cached on disk. Ensure the build environment can reach them. Cache defaults come from the plugin; adjust if you need a different cache dir.

5. Build and verify.
   - Dev: `npx rimraf dist && npm run dev`
   - Build: `npx rimraf dist && npm run build`
   - Inspect rendered HTML: you should see `<picture>` with multiple `<source>` tags and `<img>` including width/height.
   - Check generated files under `dist/media/`.

</div>

## Notes
- Keep `site.url` origin-only; if you deploy under a subpath, set `pathPrefix` separately.
- `formats` order matters; the first format is preferred by the browser.
- Use `sizes` (default from plugin) if you need custom responsive behavior; set `sizes` in the plugin options.
- For advanced options (cache, returnType/htmlOptions, remote fetch), see the Eleventy Image docs: https://www.11ty.dev/docs/plugins/image/
