src/content/en/docs/02.how-to/06.multilingual-index.md, before:

---
title: "Multilingual Index"
slug: "multilingual-index"
---

List your site pages grouped by language using Baseline’s multilingual setup.

## Prerequisites
- Baseline configured with `multilingual: true`, `defaultLanguage`, and `languages` set.
- Pages include `lang` and `translationKey` in front matter.
- `site.url` set; use `pathPrefix` if you deploy under a subpath.

## Steps

<div class="c-docs-steps">

1. Enable multilingual in `eleventy.config.js`.

   Reuse the same `i18n` data used in the multilingual tutorial:

   ```js
   import baseline from "./_baseline/eleventy.config.js";
   import i18n from "./src/_data/i18n.js";

   export default function (eleventyConfig) {
     eleventyConfig.addPlugin(baseline({
       multilingual: true,
       defaultLanguage: i18n.defaultLanguage,
       languages: i18n.languages,
     }));
   }
   ```

2. Ensure directory data files declare language for your content.

   Example `en.11tydata.js`:

   ```js
   export default { lang: "en" }
   ```

3. Create the index page.

   `src/content/pages/languages-index.md`:

   {% raw %}
   ```md
   ---
   title: "Languages Index"
   permalink: "/languages-index/"
   layout: "layouts/base.njk"
   ---

   {% set t = collections.all | groupby("data.lang") %}
   {% for lang, items in t %}
   <p><strong>{{ i18n.languages[lang].languageName }}</strong></p>
   <ul>
     {% for item in items %}
       <li><a href="{{ item.page.url }}">{{ item.data.title }}</a></li>
     {% endfor %}
   </ul>
   {% endfor %}
   ```
   {% endraw %}

   Adjust `permalink`/layout to fit your structure.

4. Verify.
   - Dev: `npx rimraf dist && npm run dev`
   - Build: `npx rimraf dist && npm run build`
   - Open the index page and confirm pages are grouped under each language.

</div>

## Notes
- Content layout typically uses per-language folders (e.g., `src/content/en/`, `src/content/nl/`) with per-folder `.11tydata.js` setting `lang`.
- `collections.translations` is available when multilingual is enabled; grouping by `data.lang` keeps the example simple.
- If you need to filter out drafts or `noindex`, add a check inside the loop (e.g., {% raw %}`{% if not page.data.draft and not page.data.noindex %}`{% endraw %}).
- If you want sibling links per page, use `translationKey` to find other languages for the same key.
- Honor `pathPrefix` in permalinks when deploying under a subpath.

Commit message:

Add `description` field for all doc pages

src/content/en/docs/02.how-to/06.multilingual-index.md, after:

---
title: "Multilingual Index"
slug: "multilingual-index"
description: "Generate a language index page using Baseline multilingual setup, grouping pages by lang with Nunjucks and i18n data, and verify output."
---

List your site pages grouped by language using Baseline’s multilingual setup.

## Prerequisites
- Baseline configured with `multilingual: true`, `defaultLanguage`, and `languages` set.
- Pages include `lang` and `translationKey` in front matter.
- `site.url` set; use `pathPrefix` if you deploy under a subpath.

## Steps

<div class="c-docs-steps">

1. Enable multilingual in `eleventy.config.js`.

   Reuse the same `i18n` data used in the multilingual tutorial:

   ```js
   import baseline from "./_baseline/eleventy.config.js";
   import i18n from "./src/_data/i18n.js";

   export default function (eleventyConfig) {
     eleventyConfig.addPlugin(baseline({
       multilingual: true,
       defaultLanguage: i18n.defaultLanguage,
       languages: i18n.languages,
     }));
   }
   ```

2. Ensure directory data files declare language for your content.

   Example `en.11tydata.js`:

   ```js
   export default { lang: "en" }
   ```

3. Create the index page.

   `src/content/pages/languages-index.md`:

   {% raw %}
   ```md
   ---
   title: "Languages Index"
   permalink: "/languages-index/"
   layout: "layouts/base.njk"
   ---

   {% set t = collections.all | groupby("data.lang") %}
   {% for lang, items in t %}
   <p><strong>{{ i18n.languages[lang].languageName }}</strong></p>
   <ul>
     {% for item in items %}
       <li><a href="{{ item.page.url }}">{{ item.data.title }}</a></li>
     {% endfor %}
   </ul>
   {% endfor %}
   ```
   {% endraw %}

   Adjust `permalink`/layout to fit your structure.

4. Verify.
   - Dev: `npx rimraf dist && npm run dev`
   - Build: `npx rimraf dist && npm run build`
   - Open the index page and confirm pages are grouped under each language.

</div>

## Notes
- Content layout typically uses per-language folders (e.g., `src/content/en/`, `src/content/nl/`) with per-folder `.11tydata.js` setting `lang`.
- `collections.translations` is available when multilingual is enabled; grouping by `data.lang` keeps the example simple.
- If you need to filter out drafts or `noindex`, add a check inside the loop (e.g., {% raw %}`{% if not page.data.draft and not page.data.noindex %}`{% endraw %}).
- If you want sibling links per page, use `translationKey` to find other languages for the same key.
- Honor `pathPrefix` in permalinks when deploying under a subpath.
