src/content/en/docs/03.modules/03.assets-postcss.md, before:

---
title: "assets-postcss"
slug: "assets-postcss"
---

{% alertBlock "warning" %}
Note: The options API is still evolving; expect tweaks as the project grows.
{% endalertBlock %}

## What it does
- Adds `css` as a template format and processes `index.css` under the resolved assets `css` directory (from your Eleventy `dir.assets`).
- Runs PostCSS with your shared `postcss.config.js` (import, nesting/preset-env, cssnano in prod).
- Outputs compiled CSS for Eleventy to write to `dist`.

## Defaults
- Entry: any `index.css` under `<input>/<assets>/css/` (including nested folders).
- Uses `postcss.config.js` (respects source maps per config, minifies in production via cssnano).
- No layouts for CSS.
- Options: none (inherits global Baseline `verbose` only). 
- If `postcss.config.js` is missing, falls back to internal PostCSS config.
- Peer deps: PostCSS plugins come from your `postcss.config.js`; fallback config is bundled.
- Output: under `dist/assets/css/` (matching Eleventy `dir.assets` and `dir.output`).

## How it works
- Resolves the assets directory from Eleventy `dir` and builds `cssDir` from it.
- Registers `css` format and an extension handler that runs for `index.css` under the resolved assets `css` directory.
- Runs PostCSS with configured plugins (user config or fallback), returns `result.css`.
- Leaves non-entry CSS files untouched (they’ll fall through).

## Inlining your CSS
- Any CSS file can be inlined with `inlinePostCSS`; the filter processes the exact file you pass through PostCSS (not limited to assets dir).
- In a template or Markdown file, build the path (e.g., from `_baseline.assets.input`) and pipe it through `inlinePostCSS`.
- In Markdown, keep the call unindented and on its own lines so the `<style>` is treated as raw HTML.

Example:
```njk
{% raw %}{% set cssPath = _baseline.assets.input ~ "css/critical.css" %}
{{ cssPath | inlinePostCSS | safe }}{% endraw %}
```

## Tips
- Any nested `index.css` under the assets `css` directory will be processed; keep only the entries you intend to ship.
- Use `inlinePostCSS` filter if you want to inline compiled CSS in templates.
- See the “Assets Pipeline” tutorial for an end-to-end example.
- Tutorial: [Assets Pipeline Quickstart](/docs/tutorials/assets-pipeline-quickstart/)

Commit message:

Add `description` field for all doc pages

src/content/en/docs/03.modules/03.assets-postcss.md, after:

---
title: "assets-postcss"
slug: "assets-postcss"
description: "Process index.css entries under assets/css with PostCSS using your config or the Baseline fallback, output compiled CSS, and inline via inlinePostCSS."
---

{% alertBlock "warning" %}
Note: The options API is still evolving; expect tweaks as the project grows.
{% endalertBlock %}

## What it does
- Adds `css` as a template format and processes `index.css` under the resolved assets `css` directory (from your Eleventy `dir.assets`).
- Runs PostCSS with your shared `postcss.config.js` (import, nesting/preset-env, cssnano in prod).
- Outputs compiled CSS for Eleventy to write to `dist`.

## Defaults
- Entry: any `index.css` under `<input>/<assets>/css/` (including nested folders).
- Uses `postcss.config.js` (respects source maps per config, minifies in production via cssnano).
- No layouts for CSS.
- Options: none (inherits global Baseline `verbose` only). 
- If `postcss.config.js` is missing, falls back to internal PostCSS config.
- Peer deps: PostCSS plugins come from your `postcss.config.js`; fallback config is bundled.
- Output: under `dist/assets/css/` (matching Eleventy `dir.assets` and `dir.output`).

## How it works
- Resolves the assets directory from Eleventy `dir` and builds `cssDir` from it.
- Registers `css` format and an extension handler that runs for `index.css` under the resolved assets `css` directory.
- Runs PostCSS with configured plugins (user config or fallback), returns `result.css`.
- Leaves non-entry CSS files untouched (they’ll fall through).

## Inlining your CSS
- Any CSS file can be inlined with `inlinePostCSS`; the filter processes the exact file you pass through PostCSS (not limited to assets dir).
- In a template or Markdown file, build the path (e.g., from `_baseline.assets.input`) and pipe it through `inlinePostCSS`.
- In Markdown, keep the call unindented and on its own lines so the `<style>` is treated as raw HTML.

Example:
```njk
{% raw %}{% set cssPath = _baseline.assets.input ~ "css/critical.css" %}
{{ cssPath | inlinePostCSS | safe }}{% endraw %}
```

## Tips
- Any nested `index.css` under the assets `css` directory will be processed; keep only the entries you intend to ship.
- Use `inlinePostCSS` filter if you want to inline compiled CSS in templates.
- See the “Assets Pipeline” tutorial for an end-to-end example.
- Tutorial: [Assets Pipeline Quickstart](/docs/tutorials/assets-pipeline-quickstart/)
