src/content/en/docs/03.modules/06.navigator-core.md, before:

---
title: "navigator-core"
slug: "navigator-core"
---

{% alertBlock "warning" %}
Note: The options API is still evolving; expect tweaks as the project grows.
{% endalertBlock %}

## What it does
- Adds a Nunjucks global `_navigator` to inspect the full render context (handy for debugging).
- When `enableNavigatorTemplate` is true, registers a virtual page at `/navigator-core.html`.
- `_navigator` and `_context` globals are always available; the template is optional.

> See the Navigator template [in action](/navigator-core.html).

## Default configuration
```js
eleventyConfig.addPlugin(baseline({ enableNavigatorTemplate: false }));
```

## How it works
- Registers `_navigator()` to return the current Nunjucks context.
- Registers `_context()` — a child of `_navigator()`.
- If `enableNavigatorTemplate: true`, adds the bundled `navigator-core.html` template with `inspectorDepth` (default `2`, or pass `[true, depth]`).

## Example usage
```njk
{% raw %}{% for key, value in _navigator() %}
  <details>
    <summary><strong>{{ key }}</strong></summary>
    {% if value | isString %}
      <pre>{{ value | safe }}</pre>
    {% else %}
      <pre>{{ value | _inspect({ depth: inspectorDepth }) }}</pre>
    {% endif %}
  </details>
{% endfor %}{% endraw %}

```

## Tips
- You can set the depth of the inspector by using a tuple: `baseline({ enableNavigatorTemplate: [true, 4] })`
- `_navigator()` and `_context()` in combination with the `_inspect()` filter can be a powerful debugging tool.
- The virtual navigator page is excluded from collections and served at `/navigator-core.html` when enabled.
- Enable the template only in local dev; disable in production. See the “Debugging & Navigator” tutorial for usage patterns.
- Tutorial: [Debugging & Navigator](/docs/tutorials/debugging-and-navigator/)

Commit message:

Add `description` field for all doc pages

src/content/en/docs/03.modules/06.navigator-core.md, after:

---
title: "navigator-core"
slug: "navigator-core"
description: "Provide Baseline navigator debug template and filters to inspect Eleventy data and collections; optional navigator route aids diagnostics in development."
---

{% alertBlock "warning" %}
Note: The options API is still evolving; expect tweaks as the project grows.
{% endalertBlock %}

## What it does
- Adds a Nunjucks global `_navigator` to inspect the full render context (handy for debugging).
- When `enableNavigatorTemplate` is true, registers a virtual page at `/navigator-core.html`.
- `_navigator` and `_context` globals are always available; the template is optional.

> See the Navigator template [in action](/navigator-core.html).

## Default configuration
```js
eleventyConfig.addPlugin(baseline({ enableNavigatorTemplate: false }));
```

## How it works
- Registers `_navigator()` to return the current Nunjucks context.
- Registers `_context()` — a child of `_navigator()`.
- If `enableNavigatorTemplate: true`, adds the bundled `navigator-core.html` template with `inspectorDepth` (default `2`, or pass `[true, depth]`).

## Example usage
```njk
{% raw %}{% for key, value in _navigator() %}
  <details>
    <summary><strong>{{ key }}</strong></summary>
    {% if value | isString %}
      <pre>{{ value | safe }}</pre>
    {% else %}
      <pre>{{ value | _inspect({ depth: inspectorDepth }) }}</pre>
    {% endif %}
  </details>
{% endfor %}{% endraw %}

```

## Tips
- You can set the depth of the inspector by using a tuple: `baseline({ enableNavigatorTemplate: [true, 4] })`
- `_navigator()` and `_context()` in combination with the `_inspect()` filter can be a powerful debugging tool.
- The virtual navigator page is excluded from collections and served at `/navigator-core.html` when enabled.
- Enable the template only in local dev; disable in production. See the “Debugging & Navigator” tutorial for usage patterns.
- Tutorial: [Debugging & Navigator](/docs/tutorials/debugging-and-navigator/)
