src/content/en/docs/03.modules/07.sitemap-core.md, before:

---
title: "sitemap-core"
slug: "sitemap-core"
---

{% alertBlock "warning" %}
Note: The options API is still evolving; expect tweaks as the project grows.
{% endalertBlock %}

## What it does
- Generates a sitemap at `/sitemap.xml` via a virtual template (enabled by default).
- Adds `eleventyComputed.page.sitemap` with defaults so you can control per-page inclusion.

## Defaults
- Template enabled: yes (`/sitemap.xml`).
- `page.sitemap` defaults: `{ ignore: site.noindex ?? false, changefreq: "", priority: -1 }`.
- Excludes pages if `site.noindex` is true, or if `eleventyExcludeFromCollections` is set, or if `page.sitemap.ignore` is true.
- `lastmod` uses `page.data.sitemap.lastmod` or `item.date` if present, formatted via the `date.toUTCISO` global.
- `layout: null` for the sitemap template; excluded from collections.

## Options
- `enableSitemapTemplate` (boolean): toggle the built-in sitemap template (default: `true`).

## How it works
- Registers `eleventyComputed.page.sitemap` to give every page sitemap defaults.
- If sitemap template is enabled, registers:
  - A single sitemap at `/sitemap.xml` if site is in one language.
- If multilingual and languages are supplied:
  - A sitemap for each language in the root of each language (`/{{ lang }}/sitemap.xml`).
  - A sitemap index at `/sitemap.xml`.
- Each sitemap loops `collections.all`, filters out excluded items, and emits a `<urlset>` with `loc`, optional `lastmod`, optional `changefreq`, optional `priority`, and `xhtml:link` alternates when translations exist.

## Tips
- Set `site.noindex = true` to suppress the sitemap entirely.
- On a page, set `sitemap: { ignore: true }` to skip it, or set `changefreq`/`priority` to include those fields.
- Provide `sitemap.lastmod` (a date) to emit `<lastmod>`; otherwise `item.date` is used when available.
- For multilingual sites, supply `languages` (object) and `multilingual: true` in Baseline options to emit per-language sitemaps and a sitemap index with alternates.
- Per-page `noindex` is not read by sitemap-core; use `sitemap.ignore` or `eleventyExcludeFromCollections` to exclude a page.
- See the “Sitemaps & Drafts” tutorial for end-to-end usage.
- Tutorial: [Sitemaps & Drafts](/docs/tutorials/sitemaps-and-drafts/)

Commit message:

Add `description` field for all doc pages

src/content/en/docs/03.modules/07.sitemap-core.md, after:

---
title: "sitemap-core"
slug: "sitemap-core"
description: "Generate sitemap.xml (and per-language indexes), respect page sitemap fields and noindex, and integrate with Baseline head and pathPrefix settings."
---

{% alertBlock "warning" %}
Note: The options API is still evolving; expect tweaks as the project grows.
{% endalertBlock %}

## What it does
- Generates a sitemap at `/sitemap.xml` via a virtual template (enabled by default).
- Adds `eleventyComputed.page.sitemap` with defaults so you can control per-page inclusion.

## Defaults
- Template enabled: yes (`/sitemap.xml`).
- `page.sitemap` defaults: `{ ignore: site.noindex ?? false, changefreq: "", priority: -1 }`.
- Excludes pages if `site.noindex` is true, or if `eleventyExcludeFromCollections` is set, or if `page.sitemap.ignore` is true.
- `lastmod` uses `page.data.sitemap.lastmod` or `item.date` if present, formatted via the `date.toUTCISO` global.
- `layout: null` for the sitemap template; excluded from collections.

## Options
- `enableSitemapTemplate` (boolean): toggle the built-in sitemap template (default: `true`).

## How it works
- Registers `eleventyComputed.page.sitemap` to give every page sitemap defaults.
- If sitemap template is enabled, registers:
  - A single sitemap at `/sitemap.xml` if site is in one language.
- If multilingual and languages are supplied:
  - A sitemap for each language in the root of each language (`/{{ lang }}/sitemap.xml`).
  - A sitemap index at `/sitemap.xml`.
- Each sitemap loops `collections.all`, filters out excluded items, and emits a `<urlset>` with `loc`, optional `lastmod`, optional `changefreq`, optional `priority`, and `xhtml:link` alternates when translations exist.

## Tips
- Set `site.noindex = true` to suppress the sitemap entirely.
- On a page, set `sitemap: { ignore: true }` to skip it, or set `changefreq`/`priority` to include those fields.
- Provide `sitemap.lastmod` (a date) to emit `<lastmod>`; otherwise `item.date` is used when available.
- For multilingual sites, supply `languages` (object) and `multilingual: true` in Baseline options to emit per-language sitemaps and a sitemap index with alternates.
- Per-page `noindex` is not read by sitemap-core; use `sitemap.ignore` or `eleventyExcludeFromCollections` to exclude a page.
- See the “Sitemaps & Drafts” tutorial for end-to-end usage.
- Tutorial: [Sitemaps & Drafts](/docs/tutorials/sitemaps-and-drafts/)
