src/content/docs/04.modules/04.head-core.md, before:

---
title: 'head-core'
slug: 'head-core'
description: 'Inject Baseline head/meta via <baseline-head>, merging site/page/head data for canonical, robots, and OG/Twitter shells plus global head slots.'
---

{% alertBlock "warning" %}
Note: The options API is still evolving; expect tweaks as the project grows.
{% endalertBlock %}

## What it does

- Injects head elements via PostHTML using a `<baseline-head>` tag.
- Builds head data from site/page/front matter and `_data/head.js` with one shared builder (used in both `eleventyComputed` and the HTML transform).
- Handles canonical (absolute when `site.url` or `siteUrl`/env URL is set), robots, OG/Twitter shells, and link/script.
- Adds `eleventyComputed.page.head` to supply merged head data per page.

## Defaults

- Head tag: `<baseline-head>`.
- User data key: `head` (via `dirKey` default).
- EOL: `\n`.
- Verbose follows Baseline `verbose` (or per-module option).

## Options

- `verbose` (boolean): extra logging (defaults to Baseline `verbose`). Other head-core options are internal for now.
- Peer deps: none (uses PostHTML bundled with Eleventy).

## How it works

- Listens to `eleventy.contentMap` to cache inputPath↔url maps (for canonical resolution).
- Adds `eleventyComputed.page.head`, which calls the shared `buildHead` (site + user + page merge).
- Adds a PostHTML plugin that also calls `buildHead` (or reuses `page.head` when present) to transform `<baseline-head>` into head elements.
- Canonical prefers `head.canonical`, then `page.url`/content map, absolutized with `site.url`/`siteUrl`/env URL + `pathPrefix`.
- Flattens and dedupes meta, injects canonical link, preserves element order: base meta, title, links/scripts, then OG/Twitter meta.

## Tips

- `<baseline-head>` must exist inside `<head>`; if it’s missing or moved, no head elements will be injected.
- Set global defaults in `_data/head.js`; override per page with `head:` in front matter.
- To get absolute canonical/`og:url`, set `site.url` in your data (or pass `siteUrl` option, or use `URL`/`DEPLOY_URL` env vars).
- Provide `canonical`, `description`, and social image at page level when you have them; otherwise defaults apply.
- `noindex: true` in front matter is used to emit `robots` meta (noindex, nofollow).
- See the “Head & SEO Basics” tutorial for a guided setup; pair with the deployment URL hygiene and social previews tutorials for correct URLs and images.
- Tutorial: [Head & SEO Basics](/docs/tutorial/head-and-seo-basics/)
- Related: [Deployment URL Checks](/docs/tutorial/deployment-url-checks/), [Custom Social Previews](/docs/tutorial/custom-social-previews/)

Commit message:

Add note about string paths

src/content/docs/04.modules/04.head-core.md, after:

---
title: 'head-core'
slug: 'head-core'
description: 'Inject Baseline head/meta via <baseline-head>, merging site/page/head data for canonical, robots, and OG/Twitter shells plus global head slots.'
---

{% alertBlock "warning" %}
Note: The options API is still evolving; expect tweaks as the project grows.
{% endalertBlock %}

## What it does

- Injects head elements via PostHTML using a `<baseline-head>` tag.
- Builds head data from site/page/front matter and `_data/head.js` with one shared builder (used in both `eleventyComputed` and the HTML transform).
- Handles canonical (absolute when `site.url` or `siteUrl`/env URL is set), robots, OG/Twitter shells, and link/script.
- Adds `eleventyComputed.page.head` to supply merged head data per page.

## Defaults

- Head tag: `<baseline-head>`.
- User data key: `head` (via `dirKey` default).
- EOL: `\n`.
- Verbose follows Baseline `verbose` (or per-module option).

## Options

- `verbose` (boolean): extra logging (defaults to Baseline `verbose`). Other head-core options are internal for now.
- Peer deps: none (uses PostHTML bundled with Eleventy).

## How it works

- Listens to `eleventy.contentMap` to cache inputPath↔url maps (for canonical resolution).
- Adds `eleventyComputed.page.head`, which calls the shared `buildHead` (site + user + page merge).
- Adds a PostHTML plugin that also calls `buildHead` (or reuses `page.head` when present) to transform `<baseline-head>` into head elements.
- Canonical prefers `head.canonical`, then `page.url`/content map, absolutized with `site.url`/`siteUrl`/env URL + `pathPrefix`.
- Flattens and dedupes meta, injects canonical link, preserves element order: base meta, title, links/scripts, then OG/Twitter meta.

## Tips

- `<baseline-head>` must exist inside `<head>`; if it’s missing or moved, no head elements will be injected.
- Set global defaults in `_data/head.js`; override per page with `head:` in front matter.
- To get absolute canonical/`og:url`, set `site.url` in your data (or pass `siteUrl` option, or use `URL`/`DEPLOY_URL` env vars).
- Provide `canonical`, `description`, and social image at page level when you have them; otherwise defaults apply.
- `noindex: true` in front matter is used to emit `robots` meta (noindex, nofollow).
- If you pass a string path for `headElements`, it is loaded via `require()` at build time. Only use trusted, local paths; prefer passing an object.
- See the “Head & SEO Basics” tutorial for a guided setup; pair with the deployment URL hygiene and social previews tutorials for correct URLs and images.
- Tutorial: [Head & SEO Basics](/docs/tutorial/head-and-seo-basics/)
- Related: [Deployment URL Checks](/docs/tutorial/deployment-url-checks/), [Custom Social Previews](/docs/tutorial/custom-social-previews/)
