src/content/en/docs/01.getting-started/04.project-structure.md, before:

---
title: "Project Structure"
---

## Overview
```bash
.
├── dist/
├── src/
│   ├── _data/
│   │   └── site.js
│   ├── _includes/
│   │   └── layouts/
│   ├── assets/
│   │   ├── css/
│   │   │   └── index.css
│   │   ├── js/
│   │   │   └── index.js
│   │   └── assets.11tydata.js
│   └── content/
│       ├── pages
│       └── posts
└── eleventy.config.js
```

- `eleventy.config.js`: root Eleventy configuration file.
- `dist/`: build output (generated output directory).
- `src/`: your site content, data, assets, and layouts aka input directory.

## Site source / Input directory (`src/`)
- `_data/`: global data (`site.js`, `head.js`, `helpers.js`).
- `_includes/`: layouts/partials (e.g., `layouts/base.njk`, `layouts/page.njk`).
- `assets/`: CSS (`assets/css/index.css`), JS (`assets/js/index.js`), images; excluded from collections via `assets.11tydata.js`.
- `content/`: pages/posts; locale folders (`en/`, `nl/`, `fr/`) hold localized content.
- `static/`: static resources such as favicon, robots.txt, ... . Passthrough copied to the root (`/`) of the site.

## About the assets directory (`assets/`)
The assets plugin creates a virtual `assets` dir in Eleventy’s config and exposes the resolved paths via `_baseline.assets`:
```
_baseline.assets.input   // e.g., ./src/assets/
_baseline.assets.output  // e.g., ./dist/assets/
```

You will need to manually create the `assets.11tydata.js` file with the following content:
```js
export default {
	eleventyExcludeFromCollections: true
}
```

## Example: the Baseline repo

Below is the current shape of this repo for reference.

In your own projects, keep your site content/layouts in `src/`, and leave the Baseline plugin code in `_baseline/`. Extend in your root config file as noted in [03. Configuration](/docs/getting-started/configuration/)

{% alertBlock "default" %}

<details>
<summary>Tree view of the Baseline repo structure</summary>

```bash
.
├── _baseline/ # the baseline plugin source.
│   ├── filters/
│   ├── modules/
│   ├── shortcodes/
│   ├── debug.js
│   ├── eleventy.config.js
│   ├── filters.js
│   ├── helpers.js
│   ├── modules.js
│   └── shortcode.js
├── .vscode/
├── dist/ # output folder.
├── node-modules/
├── src/ # input folder, this documentation website.
│   ├── _data/
│   ├── _includes/
│   ├── assets/
│   │   ├── css/
│   │   ├── js/
│   │   └── assets.11tydata.js
│   └── content/
│       ├── en/
│       │   ├── docs/
│       │   └── pages/
│       └── nl/
│           └── pages/
├── temp/
├── .editorconfig
├── .env # environment variables.
├── .env.example
├── .gitignore
├── eleventy.config.js # root config file.
├── eslint.config.js
├── netlify.toml
├── package.json # root package.json.
├── package-lock.json
├── postcss.config.js
└── README.md
```

</details>

{% endalertBlock %}

Commit message:

Align docs with latest changes

src/content/en/docs/01.getting-started/04.project-structure.md, after:

---
title: "Project Structure"
---

## Overview
```bash
.
├── dist/
├── src/
│   ├── _data/
│   │   └── site.js
│   ├── _includes/
│   │   └── layouts/
│   ├── assets/
│   │   ├── css/
│   │   │   └── index.css
│   │   ├── js/
│   │   │   └── index.js
│   │   └── assets.11tydata.js
│   └── content/
│       ├── pages
│       └── posts
└── eleventy.config.js
```

- `eleventy.config.js`: root Eleventy configuration file.
- `dist/`: build output (generated output directory).
- `src/`: your site content, data, assets, and layouts aka input directory.

## Site source / Input directory (`src/`)
- `_data/`: global data (`site.js`, `head.js`, `languages.js`, helpers).
- `_includes/`: layouts/partials/components (e.g., `layouts/base.njk`, `components/docs-nav.njk`).
- `assets/`: CSS (`assets/css/index.css`), JS (`assets/js/index.js`), images; excluded from collections via `assets.11tydata.js`.
- `content/`: posts/pages, locale folders (`en/`, `nl/`, `fr/`) if multilingual project.
- `static/` (if present): static resources passthrough-copied to `/`.

## About the assets directory (`assets/`)
The assets plugin creates a virtual `assets` dir in Eleventy’s config and exposes the resolved paths via `_baseline.assets`:
```
_baseline.assets.input   // e.g., ./src/assets/
_baseline.assets.output  // e.g., ./dist/assets/
```

Create an `assets.11tydata.js` directory data file in `assets/` to exclude assets from collections:
```js
export default {
  eleventyExcludeFromCollections: true
}
```

## Example: the Baseline repo
Below is the current shape of this repo for reference. In your own projects, keep your site content/layouts in `src/`, and leave the Baseline plugin code in `_baseline/`.

{% alertBlock "default" %}

<details>
<summary>Tree view of the Baseline plugin project</summary>

```shell
.
├── _baseline/ # the baseline plugin source.
│   ├── core/
│   │   ├── filters/
│   │   ├── globals/
│   │   ├── shortcodes/
│   │   ├── debug.js
│   │   ├── filters.js
│   │   ├── globals.js
│   │   ├── helpers.js
│   │   ├── logging.js
│   │   ├── modules.js
│   │   └── shortcodes.js
│   ├── modules/
│   └── eleventy.config.js
├── .vscode/
├── dist/ # output folder.
├── node-modules/
├── src/ # input folder, this documentation website.
│   ├── _data/
│   ├── _includes/
│   ├── assets/
│   │   ├── css/
│   │   ├── js/
│   │   └── assets.11tydata.js
│   └── content/
│       ├── en/
│       │   ├── docs/
│       │   └── pages/
│       ├── fr/
│       │   └── pages/
│       └── nl/
│           └── pages/
├── temp/
├── .editorconfig
├── .env # environment variables.
├── .env.example
├── .gitignore
├── eleventy.config.js # root config file.
├── eslint.config.js
├── netlify.toml
├── package.json # root package.json.
├── package-lock.json
├── postcss.config.js
└── README.md
```

</details>

{% endalertBlock %}
