src/content/docs/03.reference/01.baseline-plugin-reference.md, before:

---
title: 'Baseline plugin reference'
slug: 'baseline-plugin-reference'
description: 'Code walkthrough of the Baseline plugin entrypoint: options shape, what gets registered, globals, and exported config defaults.'
---

Reference walkthrough of the Baseline plugin. This mirrors `@apleasantview/eleventy-plugin-baseline/eleventy.config.js` in code order.

## Purpose

- Defines the Baseline plugin (options, modules, filters/shortcodes) and exports the Eleventy config defaults (`baselineConfig`).

## Version check and options

- `versionCheck(">=3.0")` warns if Eleventy is too old.
- `userOptions` defaults:
  - `verbose` (false), `enableNavigatorTemplate` (false), `enableSitemapTemplate` (true)
  - `assets.esbuild` ({ minify: true, target: "es2020" })
  - `multilingual` (false), `defaultLanguage`, `languages` (required when multilingual is on)
  - Tracks `hasImageTransformPlugin`
- Multilang guard: requires `defaultLanguage` + non-empty `languages` map.

## Globals, passthrough, drafts

- Adds global `_baseline` with resolved options.
- Passthrough copy: `./src/static` → `/`.
- Draft preprocessor: skips `draft: true` when `ELEVENTY_RUN_MODE === "build"`; you can override this in your own config if needed.

## Modules registered

- `HtmlBasePlugin`: `baseHref` from `process.env.URL` or `pathPrefix`.
- Assets: `assets-core`, `assets-postcss`, `assets-esbuild` (with `assets.esbuild` options).
- Head: `head-core` (enables `<baseline-head>`).
- Sitemap: `sitemap-core` (template on by default; multilingual-aware).
- Navigator: `navigator-core` (debugging template (off by default) and debug globals).
- Multilang: `multilang-core` when `multilingual` is true and languages provided.

## Filters, shortcodes, debug

- Filters: `markdownify`, `relatedPosts`, `isString`.
- Debug filters: `_inspect`, `_json`, `_keys`.
- Shortcode: `image`.

## Dev server

- Adds `eleventyImageOnRequestDuringServePlugin` for on-request image generation during serve.

## Plugin metadata

- Sets `plugin.name` explicitly to `@apleasantview/eleventy-plugin-baseline` so `eleventyConfig.hasPlugin()` can detect it.

## Exported config defaults

```js
export const config = {
	dir: {
		input: 'src',
		output: 'dist',
		data: '_data',
		includes: '_includes',
		assets: 'assets'
	},
	htmlTemplateEngine: 'njk',
	markdownTemplateEngine: 'njk',
	templateFormats: ['html', 'njk', 'md']
};
```

## Not included

- HTML image transform plugin (`eleventyImageTransformPlugin`) wiring; add it yourself if you need content-level `<img>` rewrites.

## Customize safely

- Start from `baselineConfig` and merge if you change dirs/engines/formats so assets/head/sitemap continue to work.

Commit message:

Move `collections.all` filtering, add option flag

src/content/docs/03.reference/01.baseline-plugin-reference.md, after:

---
title: 'Baseline plugin reference'
slug: 'baseline-plugin-reference'
description: 'Code walkthrough of the Baseline plugin entrypoint: options shape, what gets registered, globals, and exported config defaults.'
---

Reference walkthrough of the Baseline plugin. This mirrors `@apleasantview/eleventy-plugin-baseline/eleventy.config.js` in code order.

## Purpose

- Defines the Baseline plugin (options, modules, filters/shortcodes) and exports the Eleventy config defaults (`baselineConfig`).

## Version check and options

- `versionCheck(">=3.0")` warns if Eleventy is too old.
- `userOptions` defaults:
  - `verbose` (false), `enableNavigatorTemplate` (false), `enableSitemapTemplate` (true)
  - `assets.esbuild` ({ minify: true, target: "es2020" })
  - `multilingual` (false), `defaultLanguage`, `languages` (required when multilingual is on)
  - Tracks `hasImageTransformPlugin`
- Multilang guard: requires `defaultLanguage` + non-empty `languages` map.
- `filterAllCollection` (true): when enabled, Baseline attempts to filter out `*.11tydata.js` items from `collections.all`. This is a side-effect of `assets-esbuild`.

## Globals, passthrough, drafts

- Adds global `_baseline` with resolved options.
- Passthrough copy: `./src/static` → `/`.
- Draft preprocessor: skips `draft: true` when `ELEVENTY_RUN_MODE === "build"`; you can override this in your own config if needed.

## Modules registered

- `HtmlBasePlugin`: `baseHref` from `process.env.URL` or `pathPrefix`.
- Assets: `assets-core`, `assets-postcss`, `assets-esbuild` (with `assets.esbuild` options).
- Head: `head-core` (enables `<baseline-head>`).
- Sitemap: `sitemap-core` (template on by default; multilingual-aware).
- Navigator: `navigator-core` (debugging template (off by default) and debug globals).
- Multilang: `multilang-core` when `multilingual` is true and languages provided.

## Filters, shortcodes, debug

- Filters: `markdownify`, `relatedPosts`, `isString`.
- Debug filters: `_inspect`, `_json`, `_keys`.
- Shortcode: `image`.

## Dev server

- Adds `eleventyImageOnRequestDuringServePlugin` for on-request image generation during serve.

## Plugin metadata

- Sets `plugin.name` explicitly to `@apleasantview/eleventy-plugin-baseline` so `eleventyConfig.hasPlugin()` can detect it.

## Exported config defaults

```js
export const config = {
	dir: {
		input: 'src',
		output: 'dist',
		data: '_data',
		includes: '_includes',
		assets: 'assets'
	},
	htmlTemplateEngine: 'njk',
	markdownTemplateEngine: 'njk',
	templateFormats: ['html', 'njk', 'md']
};
```

## Not included

- HTML image transform plugin (`eleventyImageTransformPlugin`) wiring; add it yourself if you need content-level `<img>` rewrites.

## Customize safely

- Start from `baselineConfig` and merge if you change dirs/engines/formats so assets/head/sitemap continue to work.
