src/content/docs/03.reference/02.plugin-entrypoint.md, before:

---
title: 'Plugin entrypoint'
slug: 'plugin-entrypoint'
description: 'What Baseline registers by default, available options, defaults it exports, and what it does not include.'
---

How to add Baseline to Eleventy, what it registers by default, the options you can pass, and the defaults it exports. For a code walkthrough of `_baseline/eleventy.config.js`, see [Baseline config reference](/docs/reference/baseline-eleventy-config/).

> Baseline setup has two parts: in your Eleventy config file, first use the config callback to add the plugin, then export your config object using Baseline’s defaults. This page covers the first part.

This page focuses on adding the plugin and the options it exposes. For the exported config object (dirs, engines, formats), see [Config object defaults](/docs/reference/config-object-defaults/).

## Default usage

```js
import baseline, { config as baselineConfig } from '@apleasantview/eleventy-plugin-baseline';

/** @param {import("@11ty/eleventy").UserConfig} eleventyConfig */
export default async function (eleventyConfig) {
	eleventyConfig.addPlugin(baseline());
}

// Second configuration part.
export const config = baselineConfig;
```

## Options

<div class="c-docs-steps--compact">

- verbose (`false`)  
  — emit extra logging from Baseline.

- enableNavigatorTemplate (`false`)  
  — register the navigator template/routes; leave off unless you need the debug navigator.

- enableSitemapTemplate (`true`)  
  — keep sitemap generation on by default; turn off if you manage sitemaps elsewhere.

- multilingual (`false`)  
  — enable multilang core; requires `defaultLanguage` and a `languages` map.

- defaultLanguage (`string`)  
  — required when `multilingual` is true; set your default IETF code.

- languages (`object`)  
  — required when `multilingual` is true; set your language map here.

- assetsESBuild (`{ minify: true, target: "es2020" }`)  
  — forwarded to assets-esbuild; set `target`/`minify` to match your browser support and environment.

</div>

## What Baseline defaults add

<div class="c-docs-steps--compact">

- HtmlBasePlugin  
  — Sets the `baseHref` option to use `process.env.URL` or `pathPrefix`.

- Assets  
  — Registers `assets-core` for the virtual "assets" directory used internally.  
  — Registers `assets-postcss` `assets-esbuild` modules; setting up the assets pipeline for PostCSS (CSS) and esbuild (JS).

- Head  
  — Registers `head-core` head management module; enabling the use of the PostHTML custom element `<baseline-head>` in templates.

- Sitemap  
  — Registers `sitemap-core` module with sitemap templates on by default.

- Navigator  
  — Registers `navigator-core` module; enabling the use of the `_navigator()` and `_context()` debug globals. `/navigator-core.html` virtual template is off by default.

- Debug filters  
  — Handy `_inspect`, `_json`, `_keys` are available for use in templates.

- Filters  
  — Adds `markdownify`, `relatedPosts`, `isString` filters for use in templates (may be removed in a future release).

- Shortcode `image`:  
  — For image processing with `eleventy-img`; uses `transformOnRequest` to process images only when requested during local development.

- Passthrough copy  
  — Copies `./src/static` contents to site root `/` (may be changed to `./src/public` in a future release).

- Draft preprocessor  
  — Skips pages with `draft: true` set in the front matter during `ELEVENTY_RUN_MODE=build`.

</div>

## Not included

- HTML image transform (`@11ty/eleventy-img` transform) is not bundled; add it separately if you want content-level `<img>` rewrites. Baseline’s image shortcode is available either way.

Commit message:

Move `collections.all` filtering, add option flag

src/content/docs/03.reference/02.plugin-entrypoint.md, after:

---
title: 'Plugin entrypoint'
slug: 'plugin-entrypoint'
description: 'What Baseline registers by default, available options, defaults it exports, and what it does not include.'
---

How to add Baseline to Eleventy, what it registers by default, the options you can pass, and the defaults it exports. For a code walkthrough of `_baseline/eleventy.config.js`, see [Baseline config reference](/docs/reference/baseline-eleventy-config/).

> Baseline setup has two parts: in your Eleventy config file, first use the config callback to add the plugin, then export your config object using Baseline’s defaults. This page covers the first part.

This page focuses on adding the plugin and the options it exposes. For the exported config object (dirs, engines, formats), see [Config object defaults](/docs/reference/config-object-defaults/).

## Default usage

```js
import baseline, { config as baselineConfig } from '@apleasantview/eleventy-plugin-baseline';

/** @param {import("@11ty/eleventy").UserConfig} eleventyConfig */
export default async function (eleventyConfig) {
	eleventyConfig.addPlugin(baseline());
}

// Second configuration part.
export const config = baselineConfig;
```

## Options

<div class="c-docs-steps--compact">

- verbose (`false`)  
  — emit extra logging from Baseline.

- enableNavigatorTemplate (`false`)  
  — register the navigator template/routes; leave off unless you need the debug navigator.

- enableSitemapTemplate (`true`)  
  — keep sitemap generation on by default; turn off if you manage sitemaps elsewhere.

- filterAllCollection (`true`)  
  — override `collections.all` to filter out `*.11tydata.js` items added as a side-effect of `assets-esbuild`; set to `false` if you manage `all` yourself.

- multilingual (`false`)  
  — enable multilang core; requires `defaultLanguage` and a `languages` map.

- defaultLanguage (`string`)  
  — required when `multilingual` is true; set your default IETF code.

- languages (`object`)  
  — required when `multilingual` is true; set your language map here.

- assetsESBuild (`{ minify: true, target: "es2020" }`)  
  — forwarded to assets-esbuild; set `target`/`minify` to match your browser support and environment.

</div>

## What Baseline defaults add

<div class="c-docs-steps--compact">

- HtmlBasePlugin  
  — Sets the `baseHref` option to use `process.env.URL` or `pathPrefix`.

- Assets  
  — Registers `assets-core` for the virtual "assets" directory used internally.  
  — Registers `assets-postcss` `assets-esbuild` modules; setting up the assets pipeline for PostCSS (CSS) and esbuild (JS).

- Head  
  — Registers `head-core` head management module; enabling the use of the PostHTML custom element `<baseline-head>` in templates.

- Sitemap  
  — Registers `sitemap-core` module with sitemap templates on by default.

- Navigator  
  — Registers `navigator-core` module; enabling the use of the `_navigator()` and `_context()` debug globals. `/navigator-core.html` virtual template is off by default.

- Debug filters  
  — Handy `_inspect`, `_json`, `_keys` are available for use in templates.

- Filters  
  — Adds `markdownify`, `relatedPosts`, `isString` filters for use in templates (may be removed in a future release).

- Shortcode `image`:  
  — For image processing with `eleventy-img`; uses `transformOnRequest` to process images only when requested during local development.

- Passthrough copy  
  — Copies `./src/static` contents to site root `/` (may be changed to `./src/public` in a future release).

- Draft preprocessor  
  — Skips pages with `draft: true` set in the front matter during `ELEVENTY_RUN_MODE=build`.

</div>

## Not included

- HTML image transform (`@11ty/eleventy-img` transform) is not bundled; add it separately if you want content-level `<img>` rewrites. Baseline’s image shortcode is available either way.
