src/content/en/docs/01.tutorials/01.simple-baseline-site.md, before:

---
title: "Build a Simple Baseline Site"
---

Create a single-language Eleventy site using `@apleasantview/eleventy-plugin-baseline` with its defaults. We’ll use npm, Node 20.15.0, minimal CSS, and keep things as close to “starter” as possible.

## What you’ll build
- A basic Eleventy site with one page.
- Baseline wired with default options (multilingual off, sitemap on, navigator template off).
- A tiny stylesheet, bundled automatically via Baseline’s assets pipeline, and an auto-generated `sitemap.xml`.

## Prerequisites
- Node 20.15.0 (or >=20).
- npm.
- A terminal.

## 1) Create the project
```bash
mkdir simple-baseline-site
cd simple-baseline-site
npm init -y
```
- Open `package.json` and set `"type": "module"` (Baseline expects ESM). Example:
  ```json
  {
    "name": "simple-baseline-site",
    "type": "module",
    "scripts": {
      "dev": "npx @11ty/eleventy --serve",
      "build": "npx @11ty/eleventy"
    }
  }
  ```

## 2) Install Eleventy and Baseline
```bash
npm install @11ty/eleventy @apleasantview/eleventy-plugin-baseline
```

## 3) Configure Eleventy to use Baseline defaults
Create `eleventy.config.js` in the project root:
```js
import baseline, { config as baselineConfig } from "@apleasantview/eleventy-plugin-baseline";

/** @param {import("@11ty/eleventy").UserConfig} eleventyConfig */
export default function (eleventyConfig) {
  // Defaults: multilingual off, sitemap on, navigator template off.
  eleventyConfig.addPlugin(baseline({}));
}

export const config = baselineConfig;
```

## 4) Required site data
Create `src/_data/site.js`:
```js
export default {
  title: "Simple Baseline Site",
  tagline: "Hello, Eleventy + Baseline",
  url: "http://localhost:8080", // replace with your production URL when deploying
  defaultLanguage: "en",
  noindex: false
};
```

Add `src/_data/head.js` so your bundled assets load:
```js
export default {
  link: [{ rel: "stylesheet", href: "/assets/css/index.css" }],
  script: [{ src: "/assets/js/index.js", defer: true }]
};
```

## 5) Minimal layout
Create `src/_includes/layouts/base.njk`:
```njk
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="{{ lang | default(site.defaultLanguage) }}">
  <head>
    <baseline-head></baseline-head>
    <meta name="color-scheme" content="light dark">
  </head>
  <body>
    <main id="main">
      {% raw %}{{ content | safe }}{% endraw %}
    </main>
  </body>
</html>
```

## 6) Add a first page
Create `src/content/pages/index.md`:
```md
---
title: "Hello Baseline"
description: "A minimal Eleventy page powered by eleventy-plugin-baseline."
permalink: "/"
layout: "layouts/base.njk"
---

# Hello, Baseline

You’re looking at a page rendered with Eleventy and the Baseline plugin defaults.
```

## 7) Minimal assets
Create `src/assets/css/index.css`:
```css
body {
  font-family: system-ui, sans-serif;
  margin: 0;
  padding: 2rem;
  line-height: 1.5;
  color: #1f2937;
  background: #f8fafc;
}

h1 {
  margin-bottom: 0.5rem;
}
```

Create `src/assets/js/index.js`:
```js
document.addEventListener("DOMContentLoaded", () => {
	console.log(`Howdy!`);
});
```

## 8) Run the site locally
```bash
npm run dev
```
- Open the printed local URL (default http://localhost:8080/). You should see “Hello, Baseline.”
- While dev runs, Eleventy also writes to `dist/`, so you can peek at the generated files (including `sitemap.xml`).

## 9) Production build and inspect output
```bash
npm run build
```
- Find the built files in `dist/`.
- `dist/sitemap.xml` is generated automatically (sitemap module is on by default).

## 10) Next steps
- Add more pages under `src/content/pages/` with front matter (`title`, `description`, `permalink`, `layout`).
- If you deploy under a subpath, set `pathPrefix` in `eleventy.config.js`.
- When you have a production URL, update `src/_data/site.js` so canonical URLs and the sitemap are correct.

Commit message:

Add explicit exclude for assets in tutorial

src/content/en/docs/01.tutorials/01.simple-baseline-site.md, after:

---
title: "Build a Simple Baseline Site"
---

Create a single-language Eleventy site using `@apleasantview/eleventy-plugin-baseline` with its defaults. We’ll use npm, Node 20.15.0, minimal CSS, and keep things as close to “starter” as possible.

## What you’ll build
- A basic Eleventy site with one page.
- Baseline wired with default options (multilingual off, sitemap on, navigator template off).
- A tiny stylesheet, bundled automatically via Baseline’s assets pipeline, and an auto-generated `sitemap.xml`.

## Prerequisites
- Node 20.15.0 (or >=20).
- npm.
- A terminal.

## 1) Create the project
```bash
mkdir simple-baseline-site
cd simple-baseline-site
npm init -y
```
- Open `package.json` and set `"type": "module"` (Baseline expects ESM). Example:
  ```json
  {
    "name": "simple-baseline-site",
    "type": "module",
    "scripts": {
      "dev": "npx @11ty/eleventy --serve",
      "build": "npx @11ty/eleventy"
    }
  }
  ```

## 2) Install Eleventy and Baseline
```bash
npm install @11ty/eleventy @apleasantview/eleventy-plugin-baseline
```

## 3) Configure Eleventy to use Baseline defaults
Create `eleventy.config.js` in the project root:
```js
import baseline, { config as baselineConfig } from "@apleasantview/eleventy-plugin-baseline";

/** @param {import("@11ty/eleventy").UserConfig} eleventyConfig */
export default function (eleventyConfig) {
  // Defaults: multilingual off, sitemap on, navigator template off.
  eleventyConfig.addPlugin(baseline({}));
}

export const config = baselineConfig;
```

## 4) Required site data
Create `src/_data/site.js`:
```js
export default {
  title: "Simple Baseline Site",
  tagline: "Hello, Eleventy + Baseline",
  url: "http://localhost:8080", // replace with your production URL when deploying
  defaultLanguage: "en",
  noindex: false
};
```

Add `src/_data/head.js` so your bundled assets load:
```js
export default {
  link: [{ rel: "stylesheet", href: "/assets/css/index.css" }],
  script: [{ src: "/assets/js/index.js", defer: true }]
};
```

## 5) Minimal layout
Create `src/_includes/layouts/base.njk`:
```njk
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="{{ lang | default(site.defaultLanguage) }}">
  <head>
    <baseline-head></baseline-head>
    <meta name="color-scheme" content="light dark">
  </head>
  <body>
    <main id="main">
      {% raw %}{{ content | safe }}{% endraw %}
    </main>
  </body>
</html>
```

## 6) Add a first page
Create `src/content/pages/index.md`:
```md
---
title: "Hello Baseline"
description: "A minimal Eleventy page powered by eleventy-plugin-baseline."
permalink: "/"
layout: "layouts/base.njk"
---

# Hello, Baseline

You’re looking at a page rendered with Eleventy and the Baseline plugin defaults.
```

## 7) Minimal assets
Create `src/assets/assets.11tydata.js` to keep assets out of collections:
```js
export default {
  eleventyExcludeFromCollections: true
};
```

Create `src/assets/css/index.css`:
```css
body {
  font-family: system-ui, sans-serif;
  margin: 0;
  padding: 2rem;
  line-height: 1.5;
  color: #1f2937;
  background: #f8fafc;
}

h1 {
  margin-bottom: 0.5rem;
}
```

Create `src/assets/js/index.js`:
```js
document.addEventListener("DOMContentLoaded", () => {
	console.log(`Howdy!`);
});
```

## 8) Run the site locally
```bash
npm run dev
```
- Open the printed local URL (default http://localhost:8080/). You should see “Hello, Baseline.”
- While dev runs, Eleventy also writes to `dist/`, so you can peek at the generated files (including `sitemap.xml`).

## 9) Production build and inspect output
```bash
npm run build
```
- Find the built files in `dist/`.
- `dist/sitemap.xml` is generated automatically (sitemap module is on by default).

## 10) Next steps
- Add more pages under `src/content/pages/` with front matter (`title`, `description`, `permalink`, `layout`).
- If you deploy under a subpath, set `pathPrefix` in `eleventy.config.js`.
- When you have a production URL, update `src/_data/site.js` so canonical URLs and the sitemap are correct.
