src/content/en/docs/01.tutorials/02.multilingual-site.md, before:

---
title: "Build a Multilingual Baseline Site"
slug: "multilingual-site"
---

Create a two-language Eleventy site (en + nl) using `@apleasantview/eleventy-plugin-baseline`. We’ll enable Baseline’s multilingual support, add localized pages, render hreflang/alternate links, and confirm per-language sitemaps. Uses npm, Node 20.15.0, and the same minimal layout style as the previous tutorial.

## What you’ll build
- A basic site with English and Dutch pages.
- Baseline configured with `multilingual: true` and language metadata.
- Layout with hreflang/alternate links; automatic per-language sitemaps.

## Prerequisites
- Node 20.15.0 (or >=20) and npm.
- `package.json` with `"type": "module"`.
- Minimal scripts (same as prior tutorial):
  ```json
  {
    "type": "module",
    "scripts": {
      "dev": "npx @11ty/eleventy --serve",
      "build": "npx @11ty/eleventy"
    }
  }
  ```

## 1) Install Eleventy and Baseline
```bash
npm install @11ty/eleventy @apleasantview/eleventy-plugin-baseline
```

## 2) Configure Eleventy with Baseline multilingual
Create `eleventy.config.js`:
```js
import baseline, { config as baselineConfig } from "@apleasantview/eleventy-plugin-baseline";
import i18n from "./src/_data/i18n.js";

/** @param {import("@11ty/eleventy").UserConfig} eleventyConfig */
export default function (eleventyConfig) {
  // Multilingual on; default language and languages pulled from i18n data.
  eleventyConfig.addPlugin(baseline({
    multilingual: true,
    defaultLanguage: i18n.defaultLanguage,
    languages: i18n.languages
  }));
}

export const config = baselineConfig;
```

{% alertBlock "info" %}
Baseline’s multilang support uses Eleventy’s built-in i18n plugin. For plugin details, see the Eleventy i18n docs: [https://www.11ty.dev/docs/plugins/i18n/](https://www.11ty.dev/docs/plugins/i18n/).
{% endalertBlock %}

Baseline will configure HtmlBasePlugin to use `process.env.URL` automatically; create a local `.env` for dev, and set `URL` in your host/CI for production so canonicals, hreflang, and sitemaps use the right origin. 

Create a local `.env` now:
  ```
  ELEVENTY_ENV="development"
  URL="http://localhost:8080/"
  ```

## 3) Required site data
`src/_data/site.js`:
```js
export default {
  title: "Multilingual Baseline Site",
  tagline: "Hello, Eleventy + Baseline (i18n)",
  url: "http://localhost:8080", // replace with your production URL
  defaultLanguage: "en",
  noindex: false
};
```

`src/_data/head.js`:
```js
export default {
  link: [{ rel: "stylesheet", href: "/assets/css/index.css" }],
  script: [{ src: "/assets/js/index.js", defer: true }]
};
```

## 4) Define languages
Create `src/_data/i18n.js`:
```js
export default {
  defaultLanguage: "en",
  languages: {
    en: {
      contentDir: "content/en/",
      languageCode: "en",
      languageName: "English",
      title: "Baseline (EN)",
      tagline: "Hello"
    },
    nl: {
      contentDir: "content/nl/",
      languageCode: "nl",
      languageName: "Nederlands",
      title: "Baseline (NL)",
      tagline: "Hallo"
    }
  }
};
```

## 5) Per-language directory data
- `src/content/en/en.11tydata.js`:
  ```js
  export default { lang: "en" };
  ```
- `src/content/nl/nl.11tydata.js`:
  ```js
  export default { lang: "nl" };
  ```

## 6) Minimal layout with hreflang
Use the same simple layout as before, plus alternates. Create `src/_includes/layouts/base.njk`:

{% raw %}
```njk
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="{{ lang | default(site.defaultLanguage) }}">
  <head>
    <baseline-head></baseline-head>
    {# hreflang/alternate links from collections.translations #}
    {% set translations = collections.translations[translationKey] %}
		{% set defaultLang = site.defaultLanguage %}
    {% if translations %}
      {% for language, item in translations %}
        <link rel="alternate" hreflang="{{ item.lang }}" href="{{ item.url }}">
        {% if item.isDefault %}<link rel="alternate" hreflang="x-default" href="{{ item.url }}">{% endif %}
      {% endfor %}
    {% endif %}
    <meta name="color-scheme" content="light dark">
  </head>
  <body>
    <main id="main">
      <h1>{{ title }}</h1>
      {{ content | safe }}
      {% if page.url !== "/" %}
      <p><a id="go-back" href=""><span style="vertical-align: text-bottom;">&#8592;</span>&nbsp;Go back</a></p>
      {% endif %}
    </main>
    <script>
    document.getElementById("go-back").addEventListener("click", (event) => {
      event.preventDefault();
      history.back();
    });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```
{% endraw %}

## 7) Add localized pages
- `src/content/en/pages/index.md`:
```md
  ---
  title: "Hello Baseline (EN)"
  description: "English home"
  permalink: "/en/"
  layout: "layouts/base.njk"
  translationKey: homepage
  ---

   Welcome to the English home page.
```

- `src/content/nl/pages/index.md`:
  ```md
  ---
  title: "Hallo Baseline (NL)"
  description: "Nederlandse home"
  permalink: "/nl/"
  layout: "layouts/base.njk"
  translationKey: homepage
  ---

  Welkom op de Nederlandse homepagina.
  ```

## 8) Minimal assets (reuse from prior tutorial)
- `src/assets/css/index.css` — same minimal styles as before.
- `src/assets/js/index.js` — optional small script (e.g., DOMContentLoaded log).

## 9) Run the site locally
```bash
npx rimraf dist && npm run dev
```
- Visit `/en/` for English and `/nl/` for Dutch.
- View page source to see `<link rel="alternate" hreflang="...">` entries.
- While dev runs, Eleventy also writes to `dist/`, so you can peek at the generated files (including `sitemap.xml` and individual language sitemaps `dist/lang/sitemap.xml)`.


## 10) Production build and inspect output
```bash
npx rimraf dist && npm run build
```
- Check `dist/` for per-language output.
- `dist/sitemap.xml` plus per-language sitemaps (e.g., `dist/en/sitemap.xml`, `dist/nl/sitemap.xml`) if multiple languages are present.

## 11) Next steps
- Add more pages under `src/content/en/` and `src/content/nl/` with matching `translationKey` values to link translations.
- Localize labels (e.g., nav text) via data files keyed by `lang`.
- Set `pathPrefix` if deploying under a subpath; ensure `site.url` is set to your production URL for correct canonicals and sitemap links.

Commit message:

Add `description` field for all doc pages

src/content/en/docs/01.tutorials/02.multilingual-site.md, after:

---
title: "Build a Multilingual Baseline Site"
slug: "multilingual-site"
description: "Build an English and Dutch Baseline site with Eleventy i18n, hreflang links, per-language sitemaps, and environment-driven URLs."
---

Create a two-language Eleventy site (en + nl) using `@apleasantview/eleventy-plugin-baseline`. We’ll enable Baseline’s multilingual support, add localized pages, render hreflang/alternate links, and confirm per-language sitemaps. Uses npm, Node 20.15.0, and the same minimal layout style as the previous tutorial.

## What you’ll build
- A basic site with English and Dutch pages.
- Baseline configured with `multilingual: true` and language metadata.
- Layout with hreflang/alternate links; automatic per-language sitemaps.

## Prerequisites
- Node 20.15.0 (or >=20) and npm.
- `package.json` with `"type": "module"`.
- Minimal scripts (same as prior tutorial):
  ```json
  {
    "type": "module",
    "scripts": {
      "dev": "npx @11ty/eleventy --serve",
      "build": "npx @11ty/eleventy"
    }
  }
  ```

## 1) Install Eleventy and Baseline
```bash
npm install @11ty/eleventy @apleasantview/eleventy-plugin-baseline
```

## 2) Configure Eleventy with Baseline multilingual
Create `eleventy.config.js`:
```js
import baseline, { config as baselineConfig } from "@apleasantview/eleventy-plugin-baseline";
import i18n from "./src/_data/i18n.js";

/** @param {import("@11ty/eleventy").UserConfig} eleventyConfig */
export default function (eleventyConfig) {
  // Multilingual on; default language and languages pulled from i18n data.
  eleventyConfig.addPlugin(baseline({
    multilingual: true,
    defaultLanguage: i18n.defaultLanguage,
    languages: i18n.languages
  }));
}

export const config = baselineConfig;
```

{% alertBlock "info" %}
Baseline’s multilang support uses Eleventy’s built-in i18n plugin. For plugin details, see the Eleventy i18n docs: [https://www.11ty.dev/docs/plugins/i18n/](https://www.11ty.dev/docs/plugins/i18n/).
{% endalertBlock %}

Baseline will configure HtmlBasePlugin to use `process.env.URL` automatically; create a local `.env` for dev, and set `URL` in your host/CI for production so canonicals, hreflang, and sitemaps use the right origin. 

Create a local `.env` now:
  ```
  ELEVENTY_ENV="development"
  URL="http://localhost:8080/"
  ```

## 3) Required site data
`src/_data/site.js`:
```js
export default {
  title: "Multilingual Baseline Site",
  tagline: "Hello, Eleventy + Baseline (i18n)",
  url: "http://localhost:8080", // replace with your production URL
  defaultLanguage: "en",
  noindex: false
};
```

`src/_data/head.js`:
```js
export default {
  link: [{ rel: "stylesheet", href: "/assets/css/index.css" }],
  script: [{ src: "/assets/js/index.js", defer: true }]
};
```

## 4) Define languages
Create `src/_data/i18n.js`:
```js
export default {
  defaultLanguage: "en",
  languages: {
    en: {
      contentDir: "content/en/",
      languageCode: "en",
      languageName: "English",
      title: "Baseline (EN)",
      tagline: "Hello"
    },
    nl: {
      contentDir: "content/nl/",
      languageCode: "nl",
      languageName: "Nederlands",
      title: "Baseline (NL)",
      tagline: "Hallo"
    }
  }
};
```

## 5) Per-language directory data
- `src/content/en/en.11tydata.js`:
  ```js
  export default { lang: "en" };
  ```
- `src/content/nl/nl.11tydata.js`:
  ```js
  export default { lang: "nl" };
  ```

## 6) Minimal layout with hreflang
Use the same simple layout as before, plus alternates. Create `src/_includes/layouts/base.njk`:

{% raw %}
```njk
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="{{ lang | default(site.defaultLanguage) }}">
  <head>
    <baseline-head></baseline-head>
    {# hreflang/alternate links from collections.translations #}
    {% set translations = collections.translations[translationKey] %}
		{% set defaultLang = site.defaultLanguage %}
    {% if translations %}
      {% for language, item in translations %}
        <link rel="alternate" hreflang="{{ item.lang }}" href="{{ item.url }}">
        {% if item.isDefault %}<link rel="alternate" hreflang="x-default" href="{{ item.url }}">{% endif %}
      {% endfor %}
    {% endif %}
    <meta name="color-scheme" content="light dark">
  </head>
  <body>
    <main id="main">
      <h1>{{ title }}</h1>
      {{ content | safe }}
      {% if page.url !== "/" %}
      <p><a id="go-back" href=""><span style="vertical-align: text-bottom;">&#8592;</span>&nbsp;Go back</a></p>
      {% endif %}
    </main>
    <script>
    document.getElementById("go-back").addEventListener("click", (event) => {
      event.preventDefault();
      history.back();
    });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```
{% endraw %}

## 7) Add localized pages
- `src/content/en/pages/index.md`:
```md
  ---
  title: "Hello Baseline (EN)"
  description: "English home"
  permalink: "/en/"
  layout: "layouts/base.njk"
  translationKey: homepage
  ---

   Welcome to the English home page.
```

- `src/content/nl/pages/index.md`:
  ```md
  ---
  title: "Hallo Baseline (NL)"
  description: "Nederlandse home"
  permalink: "/nl/"
  layout: "layouts/base.njk"
  translationKey: homepage
  ---

  Welkom op de Nederlandse homepagina.
  ```

## 8) Minimal assets (reuse from prior tutorial)
- `src/assets/css/index.css` — same minimal styles as before.
- `src/assets/js/index.js` — optional small script (e.g., DOMContentLoaded log).

## 9) Run the site locally
```bash
npx rimraf dist && npm run dev
```
- Visit `/en/` for English and `/nl/` for Dutch.
- View page source to see `<link rel="alternate" hreflang="...">` entries.
- While dev runs, Eleventy also writes to `dist/`, so you can peek at the generated files (including `sitemap.xml` and individual language sitemaps `dist/lang/sitemap.xml)`.


## 10) Production build and inspect output
```bash
npx rimraf dist && npm run build
```
- Check `dist/` for per-language output.
- `dist/sitemap.xml` plus per-language sitemaps (e.g., `dist/en/sitemap.xml`, `dist/nl/sitemap.xml`) if multiple languages are present.

## 11) Next steps
- Add more pages under `src/content/en/` and `src/content/nl/` with matching `translationKey` values to link translations.
- Localize labels (e.g., nav text) via data files keyed by `lang`.
- Set `pathPrefix` if deploying under a subpath; ensure `site.url` is set to your production URL for correct canonicals and sitemap links.
