src/content/en/docs/01.tutorials/04.head-seo-basics.md, before:

---
title: "Head & SEO Basics"
slug: "head-seo-basics"
---

Add sensible head/SEO defaults with Baseline. You’ll set site-wide metadata, page front matter, see how `<baseline-head>` renders canonical and OG/Twitter shells, and control indexing. Uses npm, Node 20.15.0+, and the same Baseline setup as earlier tutorials.

## What you’ll build
- A page with proper `title` and `description`.
- Canonical, OG, and Twitter meta generated by Baseline.
- Noindex controls at page and site level.

## Prerequisites
- Baseline already installed and loaded (as in the simple tutorial).
- `package.json` with `"type": "module"` and scripts:
  ```json
  {
    "type": "module",
    "scripts": {
      "dev": "npx @11ty/eleventy --serve",
      "build": "npx @11ty/eleventy"
    }
  }
  ```
- Set `site.url` to your production URL (or leave localhost for local testing).

## 1) Ensure Baseline is loaded
`eleventy.config.js`:
```js
import baseline, { config as baselineConfig } from "@apleasantview/eleventy-plugin-baseline";

/** @param {import("@11ty/eleventy").UserConfig} eleventyConfig */
export default function (eleventyConfig) {
  eleventyConfig.addPlugin(baseline({}));
}

export const config = baselineConfig;
```

## 2) Site-wide metadata
Update `src/_data/site.js`:
```js
export default {
  title: "Baseline Head Demo",
  tagline: "Head & SEO quickstart",
  url: "http://localhost:8080", // set to your production URL when deploying
  defaultLanguage: "en",
  noindex: false
};
```

## 3) Head assets
Ensure `src/_data/head.js` includes your bundles:
```js
export default {
  link: [{ rel: "stylesheet", href: "/assets/css/index.css" }],
  script: [{ src: "/assets/js/index.js", defer: true }]
};
```

## 4) Layout with `<baseline-head>`
Your base layout should include `<baseline-head>` in `<head>`. Example:

{% raw %}
```njk
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="{{ lang | default(site.defaultLanguage) }}">
  <head>
    <baseline-head></baseline-head>
    <meta name="color-scheme" content="light dark">
  </head>
  <body>
    <main id="main">
      {{ content | safe }}
    </main>
  </body>
</html>
```
{% endraw %}

## 5) Page front matter
Create `src/content/pages/head-demo.md`:
```md
---
title: "Head & SEO Demo"
description: "A page showing Baseline head/SEO defaults."
permalink: "/head-demo/"
layout: "layouts/base.njk"
---

This page uses Baseline’s head defaults for canonical, OG, and Twitter meta.
```

## 6) Per-page front matter overrides (canonical + social)
Add overrides in the same page front matter:
```md
head:
  canonical: "https://example.com/head-demo/"
  openGraph:
    "og:title": "Custom OG Title"
    "og:image": "https://example.com/assets/social/og-head-demo.jpg"
  twitter:
    "twitter:title": "Custom Twitter Title"
    "twitter:image": "https://example.com/assets/social/twitter-head-demo.jpg"
```
- Canonical falls back to `page.url` → content map → `site.url` + `pathPrefix`. Supplying `canonical` is optional—add it here to see the override.
- Use absolute URLs for social images (combine `site.url` + your path in production).

## 7) Site-wide noindex (if needed)
- Set `noindex: true` in `src/_data/site.js` to suppress indexing and the sitemap entirely.
- Per-page: `noindex` is not read by Baseline; use both `sitemap: { ignore: true }` and `eleventyExcludeFromCollections: true` to keep a page out of the sitemap.

## 8) Run and inspect
```bash
npx rimraf dist && npm run dev
```
- Open the page (default http://localhost:8080/head-demo/).
- View source: confirm `<baseline-head>` rendered the canonical (your override if set), OG/Twitter tags (including custom titles/images), and defaults for description/robots.
- Check `dist/sitemap.xml` while dev runs; the page should be listed unless `noindex` is true.

## 9) Production build
```bash
npx rimraf dist && npm run build
```
- Inspect `dist/head-demo/index.html` for the rendered head.
- Confirm `dist/sitemap.xml` includes or excludes the page according to `noindex`.

## 10) Next steps
- Set `pathPrefix` in `eleventy.config.js` if deploying under a subpath.
- Provide real `site.url` for correct canonical/sitemap URLs in production.
- Add social image/meta customization via your own `_data/head.js` or page data.

Commit message:

Add `description` field for all doc pages

src/content/en/docs/01.tutorials/04.head-seo-basics.md, after:

---
title: "Head & SEO Basics"
slug: "head-seo-basics"
description: "Set Baseline head defaults, canonical and social meta, override per page, and verify rendered tags and sitemap use the correct origins."
---

Add sensible head/SEO defaults with Baseline. You’ll set site-wide metadata, page front matter, see how `<baseline-head>` renders canonical and OG/Twitter shells, and control indexing. Uses npm, Node 20.15.0+, and the same Baseline setup as earlier tutorials.

## What you’ll build
- A page with proper `title` and `description`.
- Canonical, OG, and Twitter meta generated by Baseline.
- Noindex controls at page and site level.

## Prerequisites
- Baseline already installed and loaded (as in the simple tutorial).
- `package.json` with `"type": "module"` and scripts:
  ```json
  {
    "type": "module",
    "scripts": {
      "dev": "npx @11ty/eleventy --serve",
      "build": "npx @11ty/eleventy"
    }
  }
  ```
- Set `site.url` to your production URL (or leave localhost for local testing).

## 1) Ensure Baseline is loaded
`eleventy.config.js`:
```js
import baseline, { config as baselineConfig } from "@apleasantview/eleventy-plugin-baseline";

/** @param {import("@11ty/eleventy").UserConfig} eleventyConfig */
export default function (eleventyConfig) {
  eleventyConfig.addPlugin(baseline({}));
}

export const config = baselineConfig;
```

## 2) Site-wide metadata
Update `src/_data/site.js`:
```js
export default {
  title: "Baseline Head Demo",
  tagline: "Head & SEO quickstart",
  url: "http://localhost:8080", // set to your production URL when deploying
  defaultLanguage: "en",
  noindex: false
};
```

## 3) Head assets
Ensure `src/_data/head.js` includes your bundles:
```js
export default {
  link: [{ rel: "stylesheet", href: "/assets/css/index.css" }],
  script: [{ src: "/assets/js/index.js", defer: true }]
};
```

## 4) Layout with `<baseline-head>`
Your base layout should include `<baseline-head>` in `<head>`. Example:

{% raw %}
```njk
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="{{ lang | default(site.defaultLanguage) }}">
  <head>
    <baseline-head></baseline-head>
    <meta name="color-scheme" content="light dark">
  </head>
  <body>
    <main id="main">
      {{ content | safe }}
    </main>
  </body>
</html>
```
{% endraw %}

## 5) Page front matter
Create `src/content/pages/head-demo.md`:
```md
---
title: "Head & SEO Demo"
description: "A page showing Baseline head/SEO defaults."
permalink: "/head-demo/"
layout: "layouts/base.njk"
---

This page uses Baseline’s head defaults for canonical, OG, and Twitter meta.
```

## 6) Per-page front matter overrides (canonical + social)
Add overrides in the same page front matter:
```md
head:
  canonical: "https://example.com/head-demo/"
  openGraph:
    "og:title": "Custom OG Title"
    "og:image": "https://example.com/assets/social/og-head-demo.jpg"
  twitter:
    "twitter:title": "Custom Twitter Title"
    "twitter:image": "https://example.com/assets/social/twitter-head-demo.jpg"
```
- Canonical falls back to `page.url` → content map → `site.url` + `pathPrefix`. Supplying `canonical` is optional—add it here to see the override.
- Use absolute URLs for social images (combine `site.url` + your path in production).

## 7) Site-wide noindex (if needed)
- Set `noindex: true` in `src/_data/site.js` to suppress indexing and the sitemap entirely.
- Per-page: `noindex` is not read by Baseline; use both `sitemap: { ignore: true }` and `eleventyExcludeFromCollections: true` to keep a page out of the sitemap.

## 8) Run and inspect
```bash
npx rimraf dist && npm run dev
```
- Open the page (default http://localhost:8080/head-demo/).
- View source: confirm `<baseline-head>` rendered the canonical (your override if set), OG/Twitter tags (including custom titles/images), and defaults for description/robots.
- Check `dist/sitemap.xml` while dev runs; the page should be listed unless `noindex` is true.

## 9) Production build
```bash
npx rimraf dist && npm run build
```
- Inspect `dist/head-demo/index.html` for the rendered head.
- Confirm `dist/sitemap.xml` includes or excludes the page according to `noindex`.

## 10) Next steps
- Set `pathPrefix` in `eleventy.config.js` if deploying under a subpath.
- Provide real `site.url` for correct canonical/sitemap URLs in production.
- Add social image/meta customization via your own `_data/head.js` or page data.
