src/content/en/docs/01.tutorials/05.debugging-navigator.md, before:

---
title: "Debugging & Navigator"
slug: "debugging-navigator"
---

Use Baseline’s debug helpers to inspect Eleventy data. You’ll add a page that uses `_inspect`, `_json`, and `_keys`, and optionally enable the navigator template for a full data snapshot. Keep navigator features off in production.

## What you’ll build
- A debug page that prints selected data using Baseline filters.
- (Optional) A navigator page that shows a full data cascade snapshot.

## Prerequisites
- Baseline installed and loaded (as in previous tutorials).
- `package.json` with `"type": "module"` and scripts:
  ```json
  {
    "type": "module",
    "scripts": {
      "dev": "npx @11ty/eleventy --serve",
      "build": "npx @11ty/eleventy"
    }
  }
  ```
- A sample page already exists (e.g., from the simple tutorial).

## 1) Enable (or skip) the navigator template
If you want the full snapshot page for local use only, enable the navigator template. If you skip this, leave `enableNavigatorTemplate` false and continue with the filters. The debug filters work without the navigator page.
```js
import baseline, { config as baselineConfig } from "@apleasantview/eleventy-plugin-baseline";

export default function (eleventyConfig) {
  eleventyConfig.addPlugin(baseline({
    enableNavigatorTemplate: true, // local dev only; disable for production
  }));
}

export const config = baselineConfig;
```

## 2) Add a debug page
Create `src/content/pages/debug-playground.md`:

{% raw %}
```md
---
title: "Debug Playground"
description: "Inspect data with Baseline debug helpers."
permalink: "/debug/"
layout: "layouts/base.njk"
---

## Collections (first 3)
<pre>
{% for item in collections.all.slice(0, 3) %}
- {{ item.url }}
{% endfor %}
</pre>

## Page keys
<pre>{{ page | _keys }}</pre>

## Page data (inspect)
<pre>{{ page | _inspect({ getters: true, depth: 2 }) }}</pre>

## Page data (json)
<pre>{{ page | _json(2) }}</pre>
```
{% endraw %}

## 3) Use navigator helpers inline
If you want to see the full data/context on this page:

{% raw %}
```njk
<h2>Navigator snapshot (inline)</h2>
<pre>{{ _navigator() | _inspect() }}</pre>
```
{% endraw %}

`_navigator()` renders the full snapshot; `_context()` renders just the current context. This dumps a large snapshot—use only in local dev.

## 4) Run and inspect
```bash
npx rimraf dist && npm run dev
```
- Open `/debug/` to see filter output.
- (Optional) Open the navigator virtual page. Expect verbose output; avoid exposing it publicly.

## 5) Visit the navigator template (optional)
With `enableNavigatorTemplate: true`, Baseline exposes a virtual page at `/navigator-core.html`. Keep this disabled in production.

## 6) Production considerations
- Set `enableNavigatorTemplate: false` in production.
- Remove or guard `_navigator()`/`_context()` from templates you ship.
- You can keep `_inspect`/`_json` locally for troubleshooting; avoid noisy output in production pages.

## 7) Next steps
- Combine with `draft: true` pages for safe local-only experiments.
- Narrow inspection by slicing collections or selecting specific data keys.
- Pair with sitemap/noindex controls when inspecting what will be indexed.

Commit message:

Add `description` field for all doc pages

src/content/en/docs/01.tutorials/05.debugging-navigator.md, after:

---
title: "Debugging & Navigator"
slug: "debugging-navigator"
description: "Use Baseline debug filters and the optional navigator to inspect Eleventy data, collections, and pages without shipping debug tools to production."
---

Use Baseline’s debug helpers to inspect Eleventy data. You’ll add a page that uses `_inspect`, `_json`, and `_keys`, and optionally enable the navigator template for a full data snapshot. Keep navigator features off in production.

## What you’ll build
- A debug page that prints selected data using Baseline filters.
- (Optional) A navigator page that shows a full data cascade snapshot.

## Prerequisites
- Baseline installed and loaded (as in previous tutorials).
- `package.json` with `"type": "module"` and scripts:
  ```json
  {
    "type": "module",
    "scripts": {
      "dev": "npx @11ty/eleventy --serve",
      "build": "npx @11ty/eleventy"
    }
  }
  ```
- A sample page already exists (e.g., from the simple tutorial).

## 1) Enable (or skip) the navigator template
If you want the full snapshot page for local use only, enable the navigator template. If you skip this, leave `enableNavigatorTemplate` false and continue with the filters. The debug filters work without the navigator page.
```js
import baseline, { config as baselineConfig } from "@apleasantview/eleventy-plugin-baseline";

export default function (eleventyConfig) {
  eleventyConfig.addPlugin(baseline({
    enableNavigatorTemplate: true, // local dev only; disable for production
  }));
}

export const config = baselineConfig;
```

## 2) Add a debug page
Create `src/content/pages/debug-playground.md`:

{% raw %}
```md
---
title: "Debug Playground"
description: "Inspect data with Baseline debug helpers."
permalink: "/debug/"
layout: "layouts/base.njk"
---

## Collections (first 3)
<pre>
{% for item in collections.all.slice(0, 3) %}
- {{ item.url }}
{% endfor %}
</pre>

## Page keys
<pre>{{ page | _keys }}</pre>

## Page data (inspect)
<pre>{{ page | _inspect({ getters: true, depth: 2 }) }}</pre>

## Page data (json)
<pre>{{ page | _json(2) }}</pre>
```
{% endraw %}

## 3) Use navigator helpers inline
If you want to see the full data/context on this page:

{% raw %}
```njk
<h2>Navigator snapshot (inline)</h2>
<pre>{{ _navigator() | _inspect() }}</pre>
```
{% endraw %}

`_navigator()` renders the full snapshot; `_context()` renders just the current context. This dumps a large snapshot—use only in local dev.

## 4) Run and inspect
```bash
npx rimraf dist && npm run dev
```
- Open `/debug/` to see filter output.
- (Optional) Open the navigator virtual page. Expect verbose output; avoid exposing it publicly.

## 5) Visit the navigator template (optional)
With `enableNavigatorTemplate: true`, Baseline exposes a virtual page at `/navigator-core.html`. Keep this disabled in production.

## 6) Production considerations
- Set `enableNavigatorTemplate: false` in production.
- Remove or guard `_navigator()`/`_context()` from templates you ship.
- You can keep `_inspect`/`_json` locally for troubleshooting; avoid noisy output in production pages.

## 7) Next steps
- Combine with `draft: true` pages for safe local-only experiments.
- Narrow inspection by slicing collections or selecting specific data keys.
- Pair with sitemap/noindex controls when inspecting what will be indexed.
