src/content/en/docs/01.tutorials/06.sitemaps-and-drafts.md, before:

---
title: "Sitemaps & Drafts"
slug: "sitemaps-and-drafts"
---

Control sitemap output and drafts with Baseline defaults. You’ll set `site.url`, tweak per-page sitemap fields, use `noindex`, and see how `draft: true` behaves in dev vs build.

## What you’ll build
- Pages that appear (or are excluded) in `sitemap.xml`.
- Per-page sitemap controls (`ignore`, `changefreq`, `priority`, `lastmod`).
- Draft pages that render in dev but are skipped in production builds.

## Prerequisites
- Baseline installed and loaded (defaults keep sitemap on).
- `package.json` with `"type": "module"` and scripts:
  ```json
  {
    "type": "module",
    "scripts": {
      "dev": "npx @11ty/eleventy --serve",
      "build": "npx @11ty/eleventy"
    }
  }
  ```
- Set `site.url` to your production URL for correct sitemap/canonical links (use localhost while testing).

## 1) Ensure Baseline sitemap is on (default)
`eleventy.config.js` with default options keeps the sitemap module enabled:
```js
import baseline, { config as baselineConfig } from "@apleasantview/eleventy-plugin-baseline";

export default function (eleventyConfig) {
  eleventyConfig.addPlugin(baseline({
    // sitemap is enabled by default
  }));
}

export const config = baselineConfig;
```

## 2) Page with sitemap controls
Create `src/content/pages/sitemap-demo.md`:
```md
---
title: "Sitemap Demo"
description: "Control sitemap entries."
permalink: "/sitemap-demo/"
layout: "layouts/base.njk"
sitemap:
  changefreq: weekly
  priority: 0.7
  lastmod: 2024-01-01
---

This page stays in the sitemap with custom frequency, priority, and lastmod.
```

To exclude a page from the sitemap (but still render it):
```md
sitemap:
  ignore: true
```

## 3) Noindex (site-wide only) and per-page exclusion
- Site-wide: set `noindex: true` in `src/_data/site.js` to skip the sitemap entirely.
- Per-page: `noindex: true` in front matter is not used by Baseline. To exclude a page, choose one (or combine):
  - `sitemap: { ignore: true }` — removes it from the sitemap, page still renders.
  - `eleventyExcludeFromCollections: true` — keeps it out of collections and thus out of the sitemap.

## 4) Drafts
Add `draft: true` in front matter:
```md
draft: true
```
- Dev: drafts render in `npm run dev`.
- Build: when `ELEVENTY_RUN_MODE=build`, drafts are skipped.
- The Baseline preprocessor handles this; no extra config needed.

## 5) Run and inspect
```bash
npx rimraf dist && npm run dev
```
- Open pages normally.
- Check `dist/sitemap.xml` while dev runs (sitemap is emitted and includes drafts).
- Draft pages render in dev and show up in the dev sitemap; they are excluded from the sitemap when you build for production (`ELEVENTY_RUN_MODE=build`).

## 6) Production build
```bash
npx rimraf dist && npm run build
```
Then inspect `dist/sitemap.xml`:
- Pages with `sitemap.ignore: true` are excluded.
- Pages with `noindex: true` are excluded.
- Drafts (`draft: true`) are excluded (because `ELEVENTY_RUN_MODE=build` is set by the build script).

## 7) Multilingual note
If multilingual is enabled, Baseline emits per-language sitemaps (e.g., `/en/sitemap.xml`, `/nl/sitemap.xml`) plus the root sitemap index. Per-page `ignore`/`noindex`/`draft` rules still apply per entry.

## 8) Next steps
- Keep `site.url` accurate in production; use `pathPrefix` if deploying under a subpath.
- Adjust `changefreq`/`priority` sparingly; search engines treat them as hints.
- Use drafts for in-progress content; remember they return in dev.***
- Set defaults in data files: `src/_data/sitemap.js` for global sitemap defaults, or directory data (e.g., `posts.11tydata.js`) to apply `sitemap` settings across a folder.

Commit message:

Add `description` field for all doc pages

src/content/en/docs/01.tutorials/06.sitemaps-and-drafts.md, after:

---
title: "Sitemaps & Drafts"
slug: "sitemaps-and-drafts"
description: "Control sitemap entries and drafts in Baseline: set per-page sitemap fields, apply noindex, and see how drafts behave in dev vs build."
---

Control sitemap output and drafts with Baseline defaults. You’ll set `site.url`, tweak per-page sitemap fields, use `noindex`, and see how `draft: true` behaves in dev vs build.

## What you’ll build
- Pages that appear (or are excluded) in `sitemap.xml`.
- Per-page sitemap controls (`ignore`, `changefreq`, `priority`, `lastmod`).
- Draft pages that render in dev but are skipped in production builds.

## Prerequisites
- Baseline installed and loaded (defaults keep sitemap on).
- `package.json` with `"type": "module"` and scripts:
  ```json
  {
    "type": "module",
    "scripts": {
      "dev": "npx @11ty/eleventy --serve",
      "build": "npx @11ty/eleventy"
    }
  }
  ```
- Set `site.url` to your production URL for correct sitemap/canonical links (use localhost while testing).

## 1) Ensure Baseline sitemap is on (default)
`eleventy.config.js` with default options keeps the sitemap module enabled:
```js
import baseline, { config as baselineConfig } from "@apleasantview/eleventy-plugin-baseline";

export default function (eleventyConfig) {
  eleventyConfig.addPlugin(baseline({
    // sitemap is enabled by default
  }));
}

export const config = baselineConfig;
```

## 2) Page with sitemap controls
Create `src/content/pages/sitemap-demo.md`:
```md
---
title: "Sitemap Demo"
description: "Control sitemap entries."
permalink: "/sitemap-demo/"
layout: "layouts/base.njk"
sitemap:
  changefreq: weekly
  priority: 0.7
  lastmod: 2024-01-01
---

This page stays in the sitemap with custom frequency, priority, and lastmod.
```

To exclude a page from the sitemap (but still render it):
```md
sitemap:
  ignore: true
```

## 3) Noindex (site-wide only) and per-page exclusion
- Site-wide: set `noindex: true` in `src/_data/site.js` to skip the sitemap entirely.
- Per-page: `noindex: true` in front matter is not used by Baseline. To exclude a page, choose one (or combine):
  - `sitemap: { ignore: true }` — removes it from the sitemap, page still renders.
  - `eleventyExcludeFromCollections: true` — keeps it out of collections and thus out of the sitemap.

## 4) Drafts
Add `draft: true` in front matter:
```md
draft: true
```
- Dev: drafts render in `npm run dev`.
- Build: when `ELEVENTY_RUN_MODE=build`, drafts are skipped.
- The Baseline preprocessor handles this; no extra config needed.

## 5) Run and inspect
```bash
npx rimraf dist && npm run dev
```
- Open pages normally.
- Check `dist/sitemap.xml` while dev runs (sitemap is emitted and includes drafts).
- Draft pages render in dev and show up in the dev sitemap; they are excluded from the sitemap when you build for production (`ELEVENTY_RUN_MODE=build`).

## 6) Production build
```bash
npx rimraf dist && npm run build
```
Then inspect `dist/sitemap.xml`:
- Pages with `sitemap.ignore: true` are excluded.
- Pages with `noindex: true` are excluded.
- Drafts (`draft: true`) are excluded (because `ELEVENTY_RUN_MODE=build` is set by the build script).

## 7) Multilingual note
If multilingual is enabled, Baseline emits per-language sitemaps (e.g., `/en/sitemap.xml`, `/nl/sitemap.xml`) plus the root sitemap index. Per-page `ignore`/`noindex`/`draft` rules still apply per entry.

## 8) Next steps
- Keep `site.url` accurate in production; use `pathPrefix` if deploying under a subpath.
- Adjust `changefreq`/`priority` sparingly; search engines treat them as hints.
- Use drafts for in-progress content; remember they return in dev.***
- Set defaults in data files: `src/_data/sitemap.js` for global sitemap defaults, or directory data (e.g., `posts.11tydata.js`) to apply `sitemap` settings across a folder.
