src/content/en/docs/01.tutorials/07.custom-social-previews.md, before:

---
title: "Custom Social Previews"
slug: "custom-social-previews"
---

Add custom Open Graph and Twitter meta using Baseline. You’ll set site-wide defaults and override per page, then verify the rendered `<head>`. Uses npm, Node 20.15.0+, and the same Baseline setup as earlier tutorials.

## What you’ll build
- Site-wide OG/Twitter defaults (title/description/image).
- A page that overrides the social title/description/image.
- A checklist to confirm rendered tags.

## Prerequisites
- Baseline installed and loaded.
- `package.json` with `"type": "module"` and scripts:
  ```json
  {
    "type": "module",
    "scripts": {
      "dev": "npx @11ty/eleventy --serve",
      "build": "npx @11ty/eleventy"
    }
  }
  ```
- Set `site.url` to your production URL when you deploy (localhost is fine while testing).

## 1) Ensure Baseline is loaded
`eleventy.config.js`:
```js
import baseline, { config as baselineConfig } from "@apleasantview/eleventy-plugin-baseline";

export default function (eleventyConfig) {
  eleventyConfig.addPlugin(baseline({}));
}

export const config = baselineConfig;
```

## 2) Set site-wide social defaults
In `src/_data/head.js`, use `openGraph` and `twitter` objects:
```js
export default {
  link: [{ rel: "stylesheet", href: "/assets/css/index.css" }],
  script: [{ src: "/assets/js/index.js", defer: true }],
  openGraph: {
    "og:title": "Baseline Starter",
    "og:description": "An Eleventy site using Baseline",
    "og:type": "website",
    "og:image": "https://example.com/assets/social/default-og.jpg"
  },
  twitter: {
    "twitter:card": "summary_large_image",
    "twitter:title": "Baseline Starter",
    "twitter:description": "An Eleventy site using Baseline",
    "twitter:image": "",
    "twitter:site": "@yoursite",
    "twitter:creator": "@yoursite"
  },
};
```

## 3) Create a page with overrides
Create `src/content/pages/social-demo.md`:
```md
---
title: "Custom Social Preview"
description: "This page overrides social meta."
permalink: "/social-demo/"
layout: "layouts/base.njk"
head:
  openGraph:
    "og:title": "Custom OG Title"
    "og:description": "Custom OG description for this page."
    "og:image": "https://example.com/assets/social/custom-og.jpg"
  twitter:
    "twitter:card": "summary_large_image"
    "twitter:title": "Custom Twitter Title"
    "twitter:description": "Custom Twitter description."
    "twitter:image": "https://example.com/assets/social/custom-twitter.jpg"
---

This page sets its own OG/Twitter meta instead of using the defaults.
```

## 4) Run and verify
```bash
npx rimraf dist && npm run dev
```
- Open `/social-demo/`, view source, and confirm:
  - `<meta property="og:title" ...>` / `og:description` / `og:image` match the page overrides.
  - `<meta name="twitter:card" ...>` plus `twitter:title` / `twitter:description` / `twitter:image` are present.
- Build to double-check:
```bash
npx rimraf dist && npm run build
```
- Inspect `dist/social-demo/index.html` to confirm the overrides are rendered.

## 5) Tips
- Use absolute URLs for social images (`site.url` + path in production).
- Keep image dimensions suitable for social sharing (e.g., ~1200×630).
- If you skip per-page fields, Baseline falls back to site-wide defaults from `_data/head.js`.

Commit message:

Add `description` field for all doc pages

src/content/en/docs/01.tutorials/07.custom-social-previews.md, after:

---
title: "Custom Social Previews"
slug: "custom-social-previews"
description: "Set global and per-page Open Graph and Twitter meta in Baseline, use absolute social images, and confirm rendered tags in dev and build."
---

Add custom Open Graph and Twitter meta using Baseline. You’ll set site-wide defaults and override per page, then verify the rendered `<head>`. Uses npm, Node 20.15.0+, and the same Baseline setup as earlier tutorials.

## What you’ll build
- Site-wide OG/Twitter defaults (title/description/image).
- A page that overrides the social title/description/image.
- A checklist to confirm rendered tags.

## Prerequisites
- Baseline installed and loaded.
- `package.json` with `"type": "module"` and scripts:
  ```json
  {
    "type": "module",
    "scripts": {
      "dev": "npx @11ty/eleventy --serve",
      "build": "npx @11ty/eleventy"
    }
  }
  ```
- Set `site.url` to your production URL when you deploy (localhost is fine while testing).

## 1) Ensure Baseline is loaded
`eleventy.config.js`:
```js
import baseline, { config as baselineConfig } from "@apleasantview/eleventy-plugin-baseline";

export default function (eleventyConfig) {
  eleventyConfig.addPlugin(baseline({}));
}

export const config = baselineConfig;
```

## 2) Set site-wide social defaults
In `src/_data/head.js`, use `openGraph` and `twitter` objects:
```js
export default {
  link: [{ rel: "stylesheet", href: "/assets/css/index.css" }],
  script: [{ src: "/assets/js/index.js", defer: true }],
  openGraph: {
    "og:title": "Baseline Starter",
    "og:description": "An Eleventy site using Baseline",
    "og:type": "website",
    "og:image": "https://example.com/assets/social/default-og.jpg"
  },
  twitter: {
    "twitter:card": "summary_large_image",
    "twitter:title": "Baseline Starter",
    "twitter:description": "An Eleventy site using Baseline",
    "twitter:image": "",
    "twitter:site": "@yoursite",
    "twitter:creator": "@yoursite"
  },
};
```

## 3) Create a page with overrides
Create `src/content/pages/social-demo.md`:
```md
---
title: "Custom Social Preview"
description: "This page overrides social meta."
permalink: "/social-demo/"
layout: "layouts/base.njk"
head:
  openGraph:
    "og:title": "Custom OG Title"
    "og:description": "Custom OG description for this page."
    "og:image": "https://example.com/assets/social/custom-og.jpg"
  twitter:
    "twitter:card": "summary_large_image"
    "twitter:title": "Custom Twitter Title"
    "twitter:description": "Custom Twitter description."
    "twitter:image": "https://example.com/assets/social/custom-twitter.jpg"
---

This page sets its own OG/Twitter meta instead of using the defaults.
```

## 4) Run and verify
```bash
npx rimraf dist && npm run dev
```
- Open `/social-demo/`, view source, and confirm:
  - `<meta property="og:title" ...>` / `og:description` / `og:image` match the page overrides.
  - `<meta name="twitter:card" ...>` plus `twitter:title` / `twitter:description` / `twitter:image` are present.
- Build to double-check:
```bash
npx rimraf dist && npm run build
```
- Inspect `dist/social-demo/index.html` to confirm the overrides are rendered.

## 5) Tips
- Use absolute URLs for social images (`site.url` + path in production).
- Keep image dimensions suitable for social sharing (e.g., ~1200×630).
- If you skip per-page fields, Baseline falls back to site-wide defaults from `_data/head.js`.
