src/content/docs/01.tutorial/04.head-seo-basics.md, before:

---
title: 'Head & SEO Basics'
slug: 'head-and-seo-basics'
description: 'Set Baseline head defaults, canonical and social meta, override per page, and verify rendered tags and sitemap use the correct origins.'
---

Add sensible head/SEO defaults with Baseline. You’ll set site-wide metadata, page front matter, see how `<baseline-head>` renders canonical and OG/Twitter shells, and control indexing. Uses npm, Node 20.15.0+, and the same Baseline setup as earlier tutorials.

## What you’ll build

- A page with proper `title` and `description`.
- Canonical, OG, and Twitter meta generated by Baseline.
- Noindex controls at page and site level.

## Prerequisites

- Baseline already installed and loaded (as in the simple tutorial).
- `package.json` with `"type": "module"` and scripts:
  ```json
  {
  	"type": "module",
  	"scripts": {
  		"dev": "npx @11ty/eleventy --serve",
  		"build": "npx @11ty/eleventy"
  	}
  }
  ```
- Set `site.url` to your production URL (or leave localhost for local testing).

## 1) Ensure Baseline is loaded

`eleventy.config.js`:

```js
import baseline, { config as baselineConfig } from '@apleasantview/eleventy-plugin-baseline';

/** @param {import("@11ty/eleventy").UserConfig} eleventyConfig */
export default async function (eleventyConfig) {
	eleventyConfig.addPlugin(baseline());
}

export const config = baselineConfig;
```

## 2) Site-wide metadata

Update `src/_data/site.js`:

```js
export default {
	title: 'Baseline Head Demo',
	tagline: 'Head & SEO quickstart',
	url: process.env.URL || 'http://localhost:8080/',
	defaultLanguage: 'en',
	noindex: false
};
```

## 3) Head assets

Ensure `src/_data/head.js` includes your bundles:

```js
export default {
	link: [{ rel: 'stylesheet', href: '/assets/css/index.css' }],
	script: [{ src: '/assets/js/index.js', defer: true }]
};
```

## 4) Layout with `<baseline-head>`

Your base layout should include `<baseline-head>` in `<head>`. Example:

{% raw %}

```nunjucks
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="{{ lang | default(site.defaultLanguage) }}">
  <head>
    <baseline-head></baseline-head>
    <meta name="color-scheme" content="light dark">
  </head>
  <body>
    <main id="main">
      {{ content | safe }}
      {% if page.url !== "/" %}
        <p><a id="go-back" href=""><span style="vertical-align: text-bottom;">&#8592;</span>&nbsp;Go back</a></p>
      {% endif %}
    </main>
    <script>
    const backBtn = document.getElementById("go-back");
    if ( backBtn ) {
      backBtn.addEventListener("click", (event) => {
        event.preventDefault();
        history.back();
      });
    }
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```

{% endraw %}

## 5) Page front matter

Create `src/content/pages/head-demo.md`:

```md
---
title: 'Head & SEO Demo'
description: 'A page showing Baseline head/SEO defaults.'
permalink: '/head-demo/'
layout: 'layouts/base.njk'
---

This page uses Baseline’s head defaults for canonical, OG, and Twitter meta.
```

## 6) Per-page front matter overrides (canonical + social)

Add overrides in the same page front matter:

```yaml
head:
  canonical: 'https://example.com/head-demo/'
  openGraph:
    'og:title': 'Custom OG Title'
    'og:image': 'https://example.com/assets/social/og-head-demo.jpg'
  twitter:
    'twitter:title': 'Custom Twitter Title'
    'twitter:image': 'https://example.com/assets/social/twitter-head-demo.jpg'
```

- Canonical falls back to `page.url` → content map → `site.url` + `pathPrefix`. Supplying `canonical` is optional—add it here to see the override.
- Use absolute URLs for social images (combine `site.url` + your path in production).

## 7) Noindex (site-wide and per-page)

- Set `noindex: true` in `src/_data/site.js` to suppress indexing and the sitemap entirely.
- Per-page: set `noindex: true` in front matter to add a `robots` noindex and exclude the page from the sitemap. Use `sitemap: { ignore: true }` if you want sitemap-only exclusion.

## 8) Run and inspect

```bash
npx rimraf dist/ && npm run dev
```

- Open the page (default http://localhost:8080/head-demo/).
- View source: confirm `<baseline-head>` rendered the canonical (your override if set), OG/Twitter tags (including custom titles/images), and defaults for description/robots.
- Check `dist/sitemap.xml` while dev runs; the page should be listed unless `noindex` is true.

## 9) Production build

```bash
npx rimraf dist/ && npm run build
```

- Inspect `dist/head-demo/index.html` for the rendered head.
- Confirm `dist/sitemap.xml` includes or excludes the page according to `noindex`.

## 10) Next steps

- Set `pathPrefix` in `eleventy.config.js` if deploying under a subpath.
- Provide real `site.url` for correct canonical/sitemap URLs in production.
- Add social image/meta customization via your own `_data/head.js` or page data.

Commit message:

More warnings about missing `<baseline-head>`

src/content/docs/01.tutorial/04.head-seo-basics.md, after:

---
title: 'Head & SEO Basics'
slug: 'head-and-seo-basics'
description: 'Set Baseline head defaults, canonical and social meta, override per page, and verify rendered tags and sitemap use the correct origins.'
---

Add sensible head/SEO defaults with Baseline. You’ll set site-wide metadata, page front matter, see how `<baseline-head>` renders canonical and OG/Twitter shells, and control indexing. Uses npm, Node 20.15.0+, and the same Baseline setup as earlier tutorials.

## What you’ll build

- A page with proper `title` and `description`.
- Canonical, OG, and Twitter meta generated by Baseline.
- Noindex controls at page and site level.

## Prerequisites

- Baseline already installed and loaded (as in the simple tutorial).
- `package.json` with `"type": "module"` and scripts:
  ```json
  {
  	"type": "module",
  	"scripts": {
  		"dev": "npx @11ty/eleventy --serve",
  		"build": "npx @11ty/eleventy"
  	}
  }
  ```
- Set `site.url` to your production URL (or leave localhost for local testing).

## 1) Ensure Baseline is loaded

`eleventy.config.js`:

```js
import baseline, { config as baselineConfig } from '@apleasantview/eleventy-plugin-baseline';

/** @param {import("@11ty/eleventy").UserConfig} eleventyConfig */
export default async function (eleventyConfig) {
	eleventyConfig.addPlugin(baseline());
}

export const config = baselineConfig;
```

## 2) Site-wide metadata

Update `src/_data/site.js`:

```js
export default {
	title: 'Baseline Head Demo',
	tagline: 'Head & SEO quickstart',
	url: process.env.URL || 'http://localhost:8080/',
	defaultLanguage: 'en',
	noindex: false
};
```

## 3) Head assets

Ensure `src/_data/head.js` includes your bundles:

```js
export default {
	link: [{ rel: 'stylesheet', href: '/assets/css/index.css' }],
	script: [{ src: '/assets/js/index.js', defer: true }]
};
```

## 4) Layout with `<baseline-head>`

`<baseline-head>` must be present inside `<head>` for Baseline to inject meta/link tags. Example:

{% raw %}

```nunjucks
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="{{ lang | default(site.defaultLanguage) }}">
  <head>
    <baseline-head></baseline-head>
    <meta name="color-scheme" content="light dark">
  </head>
  <body>
    <main id="main">
      {{ content | safe }}
      {% if page.url !== "/" %}
        <p><a id="go-back" href=""><span style="vertical-align: text-bottom;">&#8592;</span>&nbsp;Go back</a></p>
      {% endif %}
    </main>
    <script>
    const backBtn = document.getElementById("go-back");
    if ( backBtn ) {
      backBtn.addEventListener("click", (event) => {
        event.preventDefault();
        history.back();
      });
    }
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```

{% endraw %}

## 5) Page front matter

Create `src/content/pages/head-demo.md`:

```md
---
title: 'Head & SEO Demo'
description: 'A page showing Baseline head/SEO defaults.'
permalink: '/head-demo/'
layout: 'layouts/base.njk'
---

This page uses Baseline’s head defaults for canonical, OG, and Twitter meta.
```

## 6) Per-page front matter overrides (canonical + social)

Add overrides in the same page front matter:

```yaml
head:
  canonical: 'https://example.com/head-demo/'
  openGraph:
    'og:title': 'Custom OG Title'
    'og:image': 'https://example.com/assets/social/og-head-demo.jpg'
  twitter:
    'twitter:title': 'Custom Twitter Title'
    'twitter:image': 'https://example.com/assets/social/twitter-head-demo.jpg'
```

- Canonical falls back to `page.url` → content map → `site.url` + `pathPrefix`. Supplying `canonical` is optional—add it here to see the override.
- Use absolute URLs for social images (combine `site.url` + your path in production).

## 7) Noindex (site-wide and per-page)

- Set `noindex: true` in `src/_data/site.js` to suppress indexing and the sitemap entirely.
- Per-page: set `noindex: true` in front matter to add a `robots` noindex and exclude the page from the sitemap. Use `sitemap: { ignore: true }` if you want sitemap-only exclusion.

## 8) Run and inspect

```bash
npx rimraf dist/ && npm run dev
```

- Open the page (default http://localhost:8080/head-demo/).
- View source: confirm `<baseline-head>` rendered the canonical (your override if set), OG/Twitter tags (including custom titles/images), and defaults for description/robots.
- Check `dist/sitemap.xml` while dev runs; the page should be listed unless `noindex` is true.

## 9) Production build

```bash
npx rimraf dist/ && npm run build
```

- Inspect `dist/head-demo/index.html` for the rendered head.
- Confirm `dist/sitemap.xml` includes or excludes the page according to `noindex`.

## 10) Next steps

- Set `pathPrefix` in `eleventy.config.js` if deploying under a subpath.
- Provide real `site.url` for correct canonical/sitemap URLs in production.
- Add social image/meta customization via your own `_data/head.js` or page data.
